Multifocal Central Serous Chorioretinopathy Associated with Steroids in a Patient with Myasthenia Gravis. We present a case of bilateral multifocal central serous chorioretinopathy in a 40-year-old male who suffered from myasthenia gravis and was receiving oral prednisolone. Due to the severity of the underlying disease it was not possible to reduce the corticosteroid dose. After initial unsuccessful treatment with an intravitreal injection of ranibizumab low-fluence photodynamic therapy was performed followed by gradual tapering of the corticosteroids. Visual acuity improved significantly in both eyes. Different therapeutic approaches are. Eleni Vourda University Eye Clinic of Ioannina Stavros Niarchos Ave. GR45500 Ioannina Greece E-Mail elvourdahotmail.comWe present a case of bilateral multifocal central serous chorioretinopathy in a 40-year-oldmale who suffered from myasthenia gravis and was receiving oral prednisolone. Due to theseverity of the underlying disease it was not possible to reduce the corticosteroid dose. Afterinitial unsuccessful treatment with an intravitreal injection of ranibizumab low-fluencephotodynamic therapy was performed followed by gradual tapering of the corticosteroids.Visual acuity improved significantly in both eyes.
Introduction. Central serous chorioretinopathy CSCR is a condition characterized by the accumulation of subretinal fluid at the posterior pole of the fundus causing single or multiple areas of serous retinal detachment. The pathophysiology of the disease is thought to involve retinal pigment epithelial RPE dysfunction increased leakage of choriocapillaris vessels and Bruchs membrane dysfunction 1 2. The result of localized exudation is the formation of retinal edema and small RPE detachments at the macular and perimacular areas. Although the aetiology and triggering factors of CSCR are not clearly understood the condition is commonly associated with the use of systemic or topical steroids 2 3. Consequently a critical therapeutic step is the withdrawal of any steroids the patient might be using.Case Rep Ophthalmol 2013416DOI 10.1159/000351856 2013 S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copStefaniotou et al. Multifocal Central Serous Chorioretinopathy Associated with Steroids in a Patient with Myasthenia Gravis2Unfortunately when steroids are indispensable for the treatment of a patients systemic disease the management of CSCR becomes challenging. Here we report our experience in such a clinical setting. Case Report.
He had a history of myasthenia gravis for which he had been treated with oral prednisolone and azathioprine during the last 2 years. His bestcorrected visual acuity BCVA was 8/10 in the right eye OD and 9/10 in the left eye OS.Fundoscopy revealed a few small yellow-whitish circumscribed macular elevations and one larger irregularly shaped parafoveal elevation in OD fig. 1a end. Similar small macular lesions were also noted in OS. Fluorescein angiography showed multiple areas of early hyperfluorescence and late leakage in OD fig. 1b c end. Similar but less pronounced angiography findings were seen in OS fig. 1d end. Optical coherence tomography OCT revealed RPE detachment elevation of the neurosensory retina and highly reflective subretinal fluid mostly in OD fig. 1e.The diagnosis of multifocal CSCR was made. As the patients myasthenia could not be optimally controlled at the time the treating neurologist advised against prednisolone discontinuation. Unfortunately we noticed further deterioration of the BCVA and subfoveal expansion of the subretinal fluid in OD so it was decided to administer an intravitreal injection of ranibizumab in this eye. One month later his BCVA had deteriorated to 3/10 in OD and 7/10 in OS.
OCT demonstrated further elevation of the neurosensory retina and a more irregular subretinal accumulation of highly reflective material fig. 2 end. Indocyanine green angiography excluded neovascularization and polyp-like vascular abnormalities. Low-fluence photodynamic therapy PDT was performed. We administered verteporfin i.v. at a dose of 6 mg/m2 over 10 min waited for 5 min and then directed the diode laser at the larger lesion of leakage in OD using a wavelength of 689 nm and laser energy of 25 mJ/cm2. After the first application the laser spot was directed at the second and the third lesion of leakage in OD fig. 3a end. As the patients myasthenic symptoms improved it became possible for the attending neurologist to reduce the dose of prednisolone increase the dose of azathioprine and add neostigmine. One month later and while undergoing prednisolone tapering his BCVA in OD had improved to 6/10 with no subretinal fluid while the area with the fibrin deposition had nearly disappeared fig. 3b end. The BCVA in OS improved to 10/10 over the next couple of months. To date 1 year after treatment the patients BCVA remains stable at 6/10 in OD and 10/10 in OS with no signs of active disease. The patients myasthenia is currently well controlled with azathioprine and neostigmine.
Although the aetiology and triggering factors of CSCR are not clearly understood the condition has been associated with the use of steroids through virtually any route of administration. Furthermore type A personality emotional stress endogenous hypercortisolism as well as an imbalance between sympathetic and parasympathetic activity have also been suggested as risk factors for CSCR 2 46.Case Rep Ophthalmol 2013416DOI 10.1159/000351856 2013 S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copStefaniotou et al. Multifocal Central Serous Chorioretinopathy Associated with Steroids in a Patient with Myasthenia Gravis3Defective choroidal perfusion and RPE dysfunction are almost invariably present in eyes with CSCR. Corticosteroids may be implicated in these changes by virtue of their propensity to change RPE ionic pump function or alter the permeability of ocular barriers 7. In addition steroids increase platelet aggregation and may favor conditions promoting microthrombus formation and increased blood viscosity thus altering choroidal microcirculation 1.The suspension of steroids in patients with CSCR is a critical therapeutic intervention.
In our patient PDT was helpful in circumventing this therapeutic dilemma. PDT with verteporfin acts by decreasing choroidal permeability and tightening the blood-retinal barrier at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium 8. Lately it has been suggested that reducing the light dose fluence is safer because standard PDT may cause severe choroidal ischaemia 9 while low-fluence PDT minimizes the risk of Bruchs membrane rupture. Intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor administration is an alternative approach to CSCR management 10 which has been recently suggested. It is believed that anti-vascular endothelial growth factor exerts its effects by reducing the permeability of the choriocapillaris vessels and tightening the blood-retina barrier. Other therapies that have been proposed include the use of focal argon laser photocoagulation targeted at the leakage sites micropulse diode laser photocoagulation transpupillary thermotherapy and corticosteroid antagonists such as mifepristone and ketoconazole 1 1113.
Contrary to previous reports however the result was disappointing as the patients BCVA continued to decline 10 14. Another possible therapeutic option in our patient was the use of focal argon laser coagulation at sites of leakage 1. This treatment can be a very useful choice in patients with lesions located away from the fovea. However in this particular case it was not attempted because it was thought that laser photocoagulation would entail a high risk of rupture of these very prominent pigment epithelial detachments. In addition it was felt that photocoagulation through the presumed fibrin that had accumulated in the subretinal space would be of questionable effectiveness.After performing low-fluence PDT and tapering the steroids the patients condition improved dramatically in OD. Interestingly the clinical picture and BCVA in OS had also markedly improved over a period of a few months without any intervention other than steroid withdrawal. It should be noted that the improvement in OD could in principle be attributed to the discontinuation of prednisolone rather than PDT. We believe however that PDT was essential in our case because the resolution of CSCR in OD was immediate whereas the resolution in OS occurred over the course of some weeks.
Luckily our patients final BCVA in OD 6/10 was only moderately reduced compared to the BCVA at presentation 8/10. Our report indicates thatCase Rep Ophthalmol 2013416DOI 10.1159/000351856 2013 S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copStefaniotou et al. Multifocal Central Serous Chorioretinopathy Associated with Steroids in a Patient with Myasthenia Gravis4low-fluence PDT may be helpful when immediate steroid withdrawal is not an option in patients with CSCR. Disclosure Statement. The authors have not received grant support or research funding and they do not have any proprietary interests in the materials described in the article. This work has not been presented at any meeting. INTRODUCTION Myasthenia gravis MG an uncommon disorder of the neuromuscular junction NMJ is encountered seldom by the emergency physician. It presents as progressive weakness and fatigability of the voluntary muscles. Clinical symptoms tend to worsen with exercise and to be alleviated with rest. It was first described by Dr Thomas Willis in 16851 and is estimated to occur in 1/10000 to 1/20000 people. 2 Emergency department ED treatment of the exacerbations of MG consists primarily of ventilatory support.
Agents used to treat unrelated illnesses may cause serious complications in the myasthenic patient. We review the literature on drugs commonly used in emergency medical care that may aggravate myasthenia gravis. The muddle of mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia. Neurology 200871390391 Mycophenolate mofetil inhibits inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase a key enzyme in the de novo but not the salvage pathway of purine synthesis. Since lymphocytes exclusively use the de novo pathway whereas other cells use both pathways the drug selectively inhibits proliferation of T and B lymphocytes and has been used safely and effectively in managing patients with renal transplants. The first case report suggesting efficacy of mycophenolate as an immunosuppressive agent in myasthenia gravis appeared in 1998.1 This was followed by uncontrolled case series2-4 one small double-blind controlled trial5 and a Cochrane review.6 These studies and conversations among neurologists treating myasthenia popularized use of the drug.
The goal was to examine the short-term 12 week efficacy of mycophenolate plus prednisone compared to prednisone alone in patients receiving no other immunosuppressive therapy. A second article in this weeks issue of Neurology describes an international multicenter trial in which patients with MG on 20 mg/day prednisone were randomized to receive either mycophenolate or placebo.7 Once patients were asymptomatic or had only minimal symptoms the dose of prednisone was tapered. The goal was to evaluate the intermediateterm 9 month efficacy of mycophenolate as a steroid-sparing agent without compromising control of myasthenic symptoms in patients taking 20 mg/ day prednisone but no other immunosuppressive therapy. Neither study demonstrated any difference between mycophenolate and placebo. The authors do not suggest that mycophenolate therapy should be discontinued which raises the question of how the results of these studies should be interpreted. Does mycophenolate lack efficacy in myasthenia gravis The authors of these two studies discuss several possible explanations for the negative results other than lack of drug efficacy.
In fact improvement was seen in a remarkable 77% of patients in the placebo group.8 This figure raises concern that something is amiss a problem may have resulted because both the mycophenolate and placebo groups were also taking prednisone. The high response rate in both groups may have arisen because prednisone was more effective than anticipated. If prednisone accounted for all of the response than mycophenolate and placebo would have been equally ineffective. If prednisone accounted for only part of the response in each group then mycophenolate and placebo could have been equally effective. It may not have been lack of mycophenolate efficacy but success of placebo plus prednisone that led to the statistical dead heat between the treatment group and the controls. For the International study7 the authors considered other possibilities there could have been a lower than expected response to mycophenolate the primary outcome measure may have been too rigorous and possibly insensitive to clinically important differences the 9-month duration could have been too short and patients in the trial may not have been representative of the general population of patients with myasthenia. Indeed patients in the MSG trial8 were not selected for resistance to steroids as in prior studies.
The muddle of mycophenolate mofetil in myastheniaMichael Benatar MBChB DPhil Lewis P. Rowland MDNeurology 200871390391Mycophenolate mofetil inhibits inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase a key enzyme in the de novo but not the salvage pathway of purine synthesis. Since lymphocytes exclusively use the de novo pathway whereas other cells use both pathways the drug selectively inhibits proliferation of T and B lymphocytes and has been used safely and effectively in managing patients with renal transplants. The first case report suggesting efficacy of mycophenolate as an immunosuppressive agent in myasthenia gravis appeared in 1998.1 This was followed by uncontrolled case series2-4 one small double-blind controlled trial5 and a Cochrane review.6 These studies and conversations among neurologists treating myasthenia popularized use of the drug. Until now however there have not been any adequately powered controlled trials.78In the Muscle Study Group MSG trial8 reported in this issue patients with myasthenia who were taking no other immunosuppressive therapy were randomized to receive either mycophenolate plus prednisone 20 mg/day or placebo plus prednisone 20 mg/day with the dose of prednisone remaining constant throughout the study.
The goal was to evaluate the intermediateterm 9 month efficacy of mycophenolate as a steroid-sparing agent without compromising control of myasthenic symptoms in patients taking 20 mg/ day prednisone but no other immunosuppressive therapy. Neither study demonstrated any difference between mycophenolate and placebo. The authors do not suggest that mycophenolate therapy shouldbe discontinued which raises the question of how the results of these studies should be interpreted. Does mycophenolate lack efficacy in myasthenia gravisThe authors of these two studies discuss several possible explanations for the negative results other than lack of drug efficacy. For the MSG trial8 the authors suggest the following the 12-week duration of that trial may have been too brief or the response in patients receiving prednisone alone could have been unexpectedly good perhaps because of differences between subjects in this study and those in the preliminary studies that provided the impetus for the current trial. In fact improvement was seen in a remarkable 77% of patients in the placebo group.8 This figure raises concern that something is amiss a problem may have resulted because both the mycophenolate and placebo groups were also taking prednisone.
If prednisone accounted for all of the response than mycophenolate and placebo would have been equally ineffective. If prednisone accounted for only part of the response in each group then mycophenolate and placebo could have been equally effective. It may not have been lack of mycophenolate efficacy but success of placebo plus prednisone that led to the statistical dead heat between the treatment group and the controls.For the International study7 the authors considered other possibilities there could have been a lower than expected response to mycophenolate the primary outcome measure may have been too rigorous and possibly insensitive to clinically important differences the 9-month duration could have been too short and patients in the t. rial may not have been representative of the general population of patients with myasthenia.Indeed patients in the MSG trial8 were not selected for resistance to steroids as in prior studies. Even so mycophenolate plus prednisone yielded no better results than prednisone alone for the short-From the Department of Neurology M.B. Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta GA Neurological Institute L.P.R. Columbia University Medical Center New York NY.
Michael Benatar Emory University School of Medicine Department of Neurology Woodruff Memorial Building Suite 6000 101 Woodruff Circle Atlanta GA 30322 michael.benataremory.eduSee pages 394 and 400EDITORIAL390 Copyright  2008 by AAN Enterprises Inc.term treatment of an unselected population with generalized myasthenia. The brevity of the studies is a concern because the mechanism of action of mycophenolate as well as experience with azathioprine and other immunosuppressive drugs suggest that longer treatment perhaps as long as 18 months may be necessary for clinical effect. Even prior experience with mycophenolate suggests that a 12-week trial would be too short to demonstrate therapeutic benefit. Explanations that point to a lower than expected benefit of the drug or the rigorous outcome measure used in the international trial are frustrating because the investigators used a new composite outcome measure for which no preliminary data existed. The point of acquiring preliminary data with the outcome measure that will be used in an RCT is to estimate the frequency with which the primary outcome measure occurs in both treated and untreated subjects.
In the MSG study patients were excluded if symptoms were too severe of if they had received steroids IV immunoglobulin IVIg or plasma exchange within the preceding 3 months or thymectomy in the prior year. However in practice patients with severe MG would be treated first with some combination of steroids IVIg and plasmapheresis and would also likely receive a steroid-sparing agent perhaps azathioprine or mycophenolate in anticipation of the need for more long-term immunosuppression. In effect the MSG study was designed to exclude the patients who might have been those most likely to benefit from treatment with mycophenolate.Notwithstanding the limitations of these trials the authors are to be congratulated for undertaking and completing two complicated trials in a rare dis-ease within a relatively short time. From these data we can conclude that in patients who have not yet proven to be steroid-resistant mycophenolate offers no advantage over modest-dose 20 mg/day prednisone for the short term 12 weeks and in patients taking 20 mg/day of prednisone treatment with mycophenolate for 9 months offers no benefit with respect to improvement in either myasthenic symptoms or lowering the dose of steroids.
The answer to these questions will have to await further study. Tacrolimus in the treatment of myasthenia gravis in patients with an inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy randomized double-blind placebo- controlled study conducted in China. Background To determine the efficacy of low-dose immediate-release tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis MG with inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study. Methods Eligible patients had inadequate response to glucocorticoids GCs after 6 weeks of treatment with prednisone 0.75 mg/kg/day or 60100 mg/day. Patients were randomized to receive 3 mg tacrolimus or placebo daily orally for 24 weeks. Concomitant glucocorticoids and pyridostigmine were allowed. Patients continued GC therapy from weeks 14 from week 5 the dose was decreased at the discretion of the investigator. The primary efficacy outcome measure was a reduction relative to baseline in quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG score assessed using a generalized linear model supportive analyses used alternative models. Results Of 138 patients screened 83 tacrolimus n  45 placebo n  38 were enrolled and treated.
A post-hoc analysis demonstrated a statistically significant difference for QMG score reduction of 4 points in the tacrolimus group 68.2% versus the placebo group 44.7% p  0.044. Adverse event profiles were similar between treatment groups. Conclusions Tacrolimus 3 mg treatment for patients with MG and inadequate response to GCs did not demonstrate a statistically significant improvement in the primary endpoint versus placebo over 24 weeks however a post-hoc analysis demonstrated a statistically significant difference for QMG score reduction of 4 points in the tacrolimus group versus the placebo group. This study was limited by the low number of patients the absence of testing for acetylcholine receptor antibody and the absence of stratification by disease duration which led to a disparity between the two groups. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT01325571. journals.sagepub.com/home/tan 315. Introduction.
ai 200040 China zhaochongbofudan. edu.cnLei Zhou Jiahong Lu Department of Neurology Huashan Hospital Fudan University Shanghai ChinaWeibin Liu Changyi Ou Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital Sun Yat-sen University Guangzhou ChinaWei Li Haifeng Li Chuanzhu Yan Department of Neurology Qilu Hospital of Shandong University Shandong ChinaXu Zhang Tao Liu Department of Neurology The Affiliated Hospital of Medical College Qingdao University Qingdao ChinaHuifang Shang Hongyu Zhou Department of Neurology West China Hospi. tal Sichuan University Sichuan ChinaXu Zhang Jianhong Bao Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University Zhejiang ChinaBitao Bu Department of Neurology Tongji Hospital Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science  Technology Wuhan ChinaHui Deng Department of Neurology The First Hospital of Jilin University Changchun ChinaTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 109316 journals.sagepub.com/home/tanreceptor antibody and to a lesser extent MuSK. LRP4 and Agrin target the acetylcholine receptor AChR or other related proteins at the neuromuscular junction.3 Symptoms range in severity and include muscle weakness often in the ocular muscles and difficulty in chewing and swallowing.
disease severity or organ function and have the overall aim of achieving disease remission and normal functioning while minimizing the risk and severity of adverse events AEs.7 Conventional treatments for MG include cholinesterase inhibitors acute immune-modulatory therapies i.e. immunoglobulin or plasmapheresis resection of the thymus gland and immunosuppression with glucocorticoids GCs azathioprine cyclophosphamide or mycophenolate mofetil.78 Although long-term suppression of the immune system with GC can be an effective treatment for MG some patients respond inadequately or have poor tolerance to GC. Furthermore long-term GC use is associated with AEs such as weight gain osteoporosis and Cushings syndrome.19 Therefore treatments that enable dose reduction and elimination of GC therapy are needed.Tacrolimus used to prevent solid organ transplant rejection is a macrolide compound with immunosuppressive effects that act through the inhibition of T-cell activation.10 The efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in treating patients with MG who were unresponsive or intolerant to oral GC have been explor.
randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study oftacrolimus for MG treatment.16 It was designed to evaluate the ability of tacrolimus to reduce GC dose over a 28-week period while maintaining a stable minimal manifestation disease state no significant difference in the primary outcome measure was reported. Similarly no differences were observed in secondary efficacy measures including QMG score and MG-ADL however the study was not powered to detect these differences.16Here we report a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study conducted in China to investigate the efficacy of tacrolimus in the treatment of patients with MG who have inadequate response to GC therapy. Methods end. This was a randomized double-blind placebocontrolled multicentre phase III clinical trial conducted across 13 sites in China of tacrolimus capsules in patients with MG who had inadequate response to GC treatment. The study was conducted in accordance with the International Conference on Harmonization guidelines for Good Clinical Practice the current revision of the Declaration of Helsinki and the current regulatory rules of China. The study was approved by appropriate independent ethics committees and written informed consent was obtained from all patients. Patients end.
Notably neostigmine test was required to be positive in all patients.AChR antibody testing was absent because it was difficult to determine the inclusion of patients based on antibody testing in some centres owing to methodology problems. Following the criteria proposed by other trials1617 our diagnostic criteria not including antibody information was agreed during a meeting of investigators in China.Qi Fang Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University Jiangsu ChinaJimei Li Department of Neurology Beijing Friendship Hospital Affiliated to Capital University of Medical Sciences Beijing ChinaHua Zhang Department of Neurology Beijing Hospital Beijing ChinaZhi Song Department of Neurology The Third Xian. gya Hospital Central South University Changsha ChinaHuawei Shi Astellas Pharma China Inc. Beijing ChinaCo-first authorsL Zhou W Liu et al.journals.sagepub.com/home/tan 317All patients included in the study had an inadequate response to GC treatment and a QMG score 7. To facilitate the selection of such patients a definition of inadequate response was agreed during an investigators meeting in 2011 that took into consideration the common clinical practice at that time in China.
Inadequate response was defined as meeting any two of the following four criteria 1 QMG score improved by <25% 2 manual muscle test MMT score improved by <25% 3 MG-ADL score improved by <25% and 4 Ossermans classification grade failed to reduce.Patients were excluded if they met any of the following criteria received pyridostigmine dose >240 mg/day within 2 weeks prior to study initiation blood purification therapy or immunoglobulin therapy within 8 weeks or other immunosuppressive agents within. 12 weeks ocular MG a QMG swallowing score 2 a QMG respiratory score of 3 abnormal liver function uncontrolled diabetes concomitant pancreatitis during the 12-week period prior to the trial hyperkalaemia severe complications such as infection a history of therioma HIV infection active tuberculosis or hepatitis myocardial disease acute coronary events or severe arrhythmias or uncontrolled hypertension.There was a 7-week screening phase followed by a 24-week treatment phase. After the baseline visit first day of drug administration follow-up assessments were conducted at weeks 4 8 12 16 20 and 24 5 days. A follow-up telephone call was conducted at week 26. Interventions.
Patients continued to receive their dose of GC for 4 weeks after randomization from week 5 the dose was decreased at the investigators discretion based on disease condition. Other immunosuppressant drugs were not permitted. Outcomes end. The primary efficacy outcome measure was a reduction relative to baseline in QMG score Supplementary Table 1 by the end of the trial. Secondary efficacy endpoints were an improvement in Ossermans classification grade Supplementary Table 1 according to the University of Virginias modification of Ossermans classification1819 improvement in MG-ADL and MMT scores Supplementary Table 1 and a reduction in GC dose and dropout rate. To overcome the potential influence of cholinesterase inhibitors each clinical evaluation was performed at least 4 h after the last dose of pyridostigmine.Information on AEs was collected at each visit. A complete physical examination and electrocardiogram were conducted at screening and at the end of the trial.
Randomization and blinding. Randomization was performed using a stratified block randomization method the stratification factor was site and the block size for each site was 2 with a statistical software package SAS v9.1.3. Independent biostatisticians generated randomization numbers and used them to assign patients randomly to each group in a 11 ratio.The treatment groups were recursive by order of randomization number and the predetermined values of parameters such as block size and seed number were recorded in blind codes. The study drug and the placebo which appeared identical except for the randomization number on the label were dispensed by order of randomization number. During blind coding both the blind codes for the first unblinding only either group A or group B were assigned to each patient and those for the second unblinding both group A and group B were indicated as either the study group or placebo group.Therapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 109318 journals.sagepub.com/home/tan. Statistical methods. To ensure 80% power to detect the superiority of tacrolimus assuming a two-sided type I error of 0.05 170 patients 85 patients per treatment group were required.
Taking the dropout rate into consideration the final sample size was determined to be 40 per group.Statistical analyses were performed using the statistical software package SAS v9.1.3 or later versions. All significance testing was two-tailed at a 0.05 significance level. All randomized patients who received at least one dose of study drug were included in the safety analysis set SAF those who received one dose of study drug and had at least one efficacy measurement were included in the full analysis set FAS all patients who received 80120% of their planned dose who did not use prohibited drugs and who had no efficacy protocol deviations or violations were included in the per-protocol set PPS. Demographic and baseline characteristics summarized by betweengroup differences were compared using t tests for continuous variables or Fishers exact test for categorical variables. For the primary efficacy endpoint generalized linear models were used to compare the change in total QMG scores between the two groups compound symmetry and unstructured mixed-effects models were used in pre-specified supportive analyses of the primary efficacy endpoint.
Results end. end. Patients end. Patients were enrolled from 13 sites across China. The date of first informed consent was 30 March 2011 the last patient was evaluated 22 May 2014. In total 138 patients were screened for inclusion of these 83 patients were randomized and received at least one dose of study drug tacrolimus n  45 placebo n  38 Figure 1. Onepatient in the tacrolimus group received the study drug but had no efficacy measures assessed and thus was excluded from the FAS. One patient was excluded from the FAS and PPS owing to having no assessment of QMG scale at any post-baseline visit. Ten patients were excluded from the PPS owing to protocol violations.There were no significant differences in baseline demographics between treatment groups apart from the duration of MG Table 1 which was significantly lower at baseline for the tacrolimus group 27.9 months than the placebo group 63.5 months p  0.028. The most common medical histories >5% overall were thymectomy 17.1% thymoma 15.9% hypertension 13.4% hyperlipidaemia 7.3% and diabetes mellitus 6.1% with some non-statistically significant differences between groups.
All patients in the SAF received systemic GC prednisone 96.4% or methylprednisolone 6.0% with no significant differences in therapy dose between treatment groups median daily GC dose at baseline was 40.0 mg for both groups. Cholinesterase inhibitors were received by 85.5% of patients with similar proportions between the two groups. The mean daily dose for cholinesterase inhibitors at baseline was 163.3 mg in the tacrolimus group versus 146.8 mg in the placebo group. Primary efficacy endpoint. The change in adjusted mean QMG score from baseline to week 24 was larger in patients receiving tacrolimus versus placebo 4.9 versus 3.3 respectively Figure 2 but the difference did not reach statistical significance least squares LS mean difference 1.7 95% CI 3.5 to 0.1 p  0.067. At week 16 there was a statistically significant improvement in QMG score from baseline with tacrolimus compared with placebo LS mean difference 2.07 p  0.012.In supportive analyses the LS mean difference in QMG score at week 24 versus placebo reached statistical significance for both the compound symmetry model and the unstructured covariance structure in the FAS population 1.9 p  0.012 and 1.8 p  0.046 respectively and the PPS population 1.8 p  0.022 and 1.9 p  0.044.journals.sagepub.com/home/. tan 319 end.
There were no statistically significant differences between tacrolimus and placebo for any of the secondary efficacy endpoints at week 24 Table 2. In a supportive analysis using the PPS a significant improvement in Ossermans classification grade from baseline was observed with tacrolimus treatment p  0.035. In the tacrolimus group there were more patients with an Ossermans classification grade that decreased from baseline by 1 grade versus placebo. For MG-ADL and MMT the decreases from baseline were higher for the tacrolimus group than the placebo group. Mean change in daily GC dose at week 24 was 16.4 mg and 15.3 mg for tacrolimus and placebo respectively p  0.767. There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups in the number of patients completing the trial at week 24. Post-hoc analysis. The number of patients who achieved the minimal clinically relevant difference in total QMG score reduction of 4 was significantly higher in the tacrolimus group 68.2% 30/44 patients than the placebo group 44.7% 17/38 patients p  0.044 Figure 3. Safety end. The incidence and severity of AEs were similar across the treatment groups Table 3.
A total of 11 patients 13.3% reported serious AEs SAEs with no statistically significant difference between the two groups placebo 15.8%Therapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 109320 journals.sagepub.com/home/tanTable 1. Baseline characteristics FAS.Parameter Tacrolimus n  44Placebo n  38p-valueAge yearsMean SD 41.0 12.8 44.0 12.1 0.284Median range 40.0 2068 43.0 2468Sex n %Male 16 36.4 20 52.6 0.182Female 28 63.6 18 47.4Ethnicity n %Han 42 95.5 38 100.0 0.497Others 2 4.5 0 0.0BMI kg/m2Mean SD 22.9 2.9 23.8 3.1 0.179Median range 22.6 17.828.3 24.0 16.631.2Duration of MG monthsMean SD 27.9 37.8 63.5 90.2 0.028Median range 13.3 0.0196.7 33.00 1.9455.7Concomitant conditions n %Diabetes mellitus 4 9.1 1 2.6 0.369Hyp. ertension 4 9.1 7 18.4 0.330Hyperlipidaemia 2 4.5 4 10.5 0.405Baseline daily GC dose mgMean SD 42.1 13.5 40.8 10.9 NAMedian range 40.0 30.050.0 40 20.080.0 NAQMG scoreMean SD 14.3 4.3 13.6 3.7 0.432Median range 14.0 724 14.0 721Ossermans scale grading1 0 0 0 0 0.6062 16 36.4 15 39.53 21 47.7 19 50.04 7 15.9 4 10.55 0 0 0 0Activities of daily living scaleMean SD 6.2 3.3 5.6 3.1 0.383Median range 5.5 114 6.0 012Manual muscle testMean SD 21.3 14.0 21.2 15.4 0.986Median range 20.0 362 17.0 272 A sig. nificant difference in duration of MG between groups p  0.028.
BMI body mass index FAS full analysis set GC glucocorticoid MG myasthenia gravis SD standard deviation QMG quantitative MG.journals.sagepub.com/home/tan 321tacrolimus 11.1% p  0.747. The SAEs reported by nine patients were considered potentially related to the trial drug with no statistically significant difference between treatment groups p  0.726. No deaths occurred during the trial. Six patients discontinued treatment due to AEs three per group and all events except one in the placebo group were assessed as being serious and related to treatment tacrolimus worsening of MG n  2 and worsening of MG and lung infection n  1 placebo worsening of MG n  1 and increased blood glucose increased glycosylated haemoglobin and increased lipid levels n  1 all experienced by the same patient. Increases in blood glucose were observed in the tacrolimus group mean change from baseline at weeks 4 and 12 was 0.650 mmol/l and 0.568 mmol/l respectively but there was little change in the placebo group. Over the 24-week trial mean creatinine levels decreased in the tacrolimus group and increased in the placebo group week 24 mean change from baseline was 1.6 mol/l and 0.4 mol/l respectively but this difference was not statistically significant p  0.461.
There was a largerTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 109322 journals.sagepub.com/home/tandecrease in change from baseline alanine aminotransferase values in the tacrolimus group versus the placebo group week 24 mean change from baseline was 7.5 U/l and 2.2 U/l respectively. There were no notable differences between the two groups for vital signs electrocardiogram findings or body mass index throughout the duration of the study. Discussion. In this study treatment with tacrolimus 3 mg did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference for QMG score reduction over 24 weeks compared with placebo. A post-hoc analysis demonstrated that there was a statistically significantTable 3. Summary of serious adverse events and potentially drug-related adverse events reported in any treatment group SAF.Proportion of patients n % Tacrolimus n  45Placebo n  38Patients with any adverse event 36 80.0 31 81.6Patients with any serious adverse event 5 11.1 6 15.8Myasthenia gravis 3 6.7 4 10.5Lung infection 1 2.2 1 2.6Diabetes mellitus 1 2.2 0.0Dyspnoea 1 2.2 0.0Bronchitis 0 0.0 2 5.3Atrial fibrillation 0 0.0 1 2.6Patients with any potentially drug-related adverse event 33 73.3 29 76.3Repo.
1.000 Fishers exact test at least one serious adverse event p  0.747 Fishers exact test or at least one potentially drug-related adverse event p  0.804 Fishers exact test. If a patient experienced more than one episode of an adverse event the patient was counted only once within a preferred term. SAF safety analysis set.L Zhou W Liu et al.journals.sagepub.com/home/tan 323difference for QMG score reduction of 4 points at week 24 between the tacrolimus and placebo groups. This reduction in QMG score has been shown to be clinically significant.20There has only been one other randomized controlled trial for tacrolimus in MG with similar patient numbers n  80 and time period 28 weeks to the current trial.16 The primary endpoint of that trial was a reduction in mean daily GC dose given in the last 12 weeks of the study which did not differ significantly between the treatment group and the placebo group. Furthermore that trial did not show any statistically significant difference in QMG score.1116 However it should be noted that the baseline QMG score was much lower than in the current study 5 versus 14 and thus less likely to show a difference.
ients with a similar baseline QMG score 14 and those with different baseline QMG scores.1421 A large retrospective study that followed 212 patients 110 of whom were thymectomized and immunosuppressant dependent received tacrolimus over a mean follow-up time of 49.3  18.1 months indicating that the mean QMG score decreased from 20.5 to 0.2 at the final visit.23 Other small studies have found a small decrease in QMG score with tacrolimus. For example Tada and colleagues demonstrated that 67% of patients achieved a three-point decrease in QMG score at 6 months which was maintained for 1 year.13 In the long term improvements were observed from 3 months and lasted up to 5 years demonstrating the efficacy of tacrolimus.1315 The dose of 3 mg tacrolimus in the current trial and the duration of 24 weeks were chosen based on previous studies of tacrolimus for the treatment of MG.1416A post-hoc analysis demonstrated that 68.2% of patients. in the tacrolimus group achieved a 4-point improvement in QMG score compared with 44.7% of patients in the placebo group. Similarly in the Tindall study more patientstreated with cyclosporine 40% than placebo 11% experienced a 4-point improvement in QMG score that was sustained during the 6-month trial period.
In this situation a change in value of 3 points of the MG-composite score is considered the criterion for a clinically significant difference.24In some studies tacrolimus use in patients with MG was associated with a steroid-sparing effect.1214 A reduction in concomitant GC dose has been observed between 4 months and 1 year after commencing tacrolimus treatment.1314 The potential steroid-sparing effect of tacrolimus could limit the significance of the safety concerns of long-term GC use in patie. nts with MG. However the current trial did not show a change in concomitant GC dose with tacrolimus versus placebo at week 24. It is possible that the duration of the current trial was too short to allow for a significant change in GC dose. These results are similar to those reported in the other randomized placebo-controlled trial of tacrolimus in which no change was reported for the primary outcome of mean daily steroid dose during the last 12 weeks of the 28-week trial.16Tacrolimus 3 mg administered once daily for 24 weeks was well tolerated with AEs that were generally considered mild.
This contrasts with studies of other calcineurin inhibitors such as cyclosporine which have been associated with SAEs such as nephrotoxicity and hypertension.7 Notably the occurrence of infection in the tacrolimus group was not significantly higher than in the placebo group.At baseline there were more patients with diabetes in the tacrolimus group 9.1% versus the placebo group 2.6%. At week 24 there were more patients with increased blood glucose in the tacrolimus group n  8 versus the placebo group n  3. Moreover nine patients had glycosylatedTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 109324 journals.sagepub.com/home/tanhaemoglobin in the tacrolimus group versus four in the placebo group. Three patients in the tacrolimus group reported an AE of diabetes although only one of these patients shifted from normal blood glucose levels at baseline to high levels at week 12. It should be noted that all patients in the current study received a relatively high dose of concomitant steroids which carries a risk of new-onset diabetes. In other studies of low-dose tacrolimus treatment discontinuation due to new-onset diabetes has been reported in one patient.11A limitation of the current trial was the small number of patients.
This small sample size compromised the statistical power to meet the primary efficacy endpoint. Another major limitation was the absence of AChR antibody testing the diagnosis was however confirmed by repetitive stimulation studies and positive neostigmine test.A potential limitation is that the trial excluded patients with ocular MG which is normally associated with mild symptoms. Consequently the baseline QMG score in this trial was higher than in other studies11 indicating a population with more severe symptoms.Furthermore it is difficult to evaluate inadequate responses to GC therapy because the onset of remission varies greatly.7 It is possible that some of the study population were still responding to their initial GC treatment during the study period despite a requirement of at least 6 weeks to define an inadequate response. The short duration of this study 24 weeks made it difficult to evaluate the steroid-sparing effects of tacrolimus.
Patients were randomly assigned in a 11 ratio to receive either tacrolimus or placebo and were not stratified by disease duration so future trials should control for the duration of MG to balance the baseline characteristics of the two study groups. Conclusion. In conclusion low-dose 3 mg tacrolimus for the treatment of patients with MG who had an inadequate response to GC did not demonstrate a significantly greater reduction in mean QMG score over 24 weeks versus placebo. However a post-hoc analysis demonstrated a statistically significant difference for QMG score reduction of 4 points in the tacrolimus group versus the placebo group. Unfortunately the difference between the study groups concerning the duration of MG makes the data difficult to interpret and this should be considered when comparing the efficacy results between the two groups. Funding end. Medical writing support in the development of this manuscript was provided by Helen Farrington and Michelle Utton-Mishra from SuccinctChoice Medical Communications and funded by Astellas Pharma Global Development Inc. This work was supported by Astellas Pharma Global Development Inc. Conflict of interest statement. Huawei Shi is an employee of Astellas Pharma China Inc. All other authors declare no conflict of interest.
Purpose The IL-2 gene polymorphisms have been reported to be associated with the development of autoimmune disease. However there are no published studies examining the influence of the IL-2 gene polymorphisms on the response of myasthenia gravis MG patients to tacrolimus Tac. The goal of this study was to investigate the relationship between the polymorphisms of IL-2 and Tac response in MG patients. Methods Ninety-two MG patients treated with Tac were studied including 57 Tac-effective patients and 35 Tac-ineffective patients. Then we selected four single-nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs rs2069776 rs2069772 rs2069762 rs2069763 in the IL-2 gene. Next we analyzed the distribution of genotypes allelic frequencies of SNPs and haplotype frequencies among polymorphisms in the two groups of patients. Results The distribution of the allelic frequency of the rs2069762 variant differed between the Tac-effective and Tac-ineffective patients P  0.02. Genotypes G/T and G/G of rs2069762 were differently distributed between the two groups when the wild genotype T/Twas assigned as a reference P < 0.001 for G/T P  0.003 for G/G. Patients with the TAGG haplotype tended to be Tac-ineffective P < 0.001 OR 0.15 95% CI 0.050.43.
Keywords rs2069762 variant . G/T and G/G genotype of rs2069762 . TAGG haplotype . Tacrolimus . Tacrolimus response . Myasthenia gravis. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is a T cell-dependent and antibodyand complement-mediated autoimmune disorder of theneuromuscular junction characterized by antibody-mediated skeletal muscle weakness and fatigability. It has a reported worldwide prevalence of 40180 per million people and an annual incidence of 412 per million people 13.Yang Shumei Li Yi Meng Huanyu Li Zhibin Jin Wanlin Xu Liqun and Yang Huan contributed equally to this work.Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article https//doi.org/10.1007/s00228-019-02642-z contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users. Yang Huan yangh69126.comYang Shumei 158111026csu.edu.cnLi Yi centralsouth126.comMeng Huany. u menghy126.comLi Zhibin alizhibin123163.comJin Wanlin Wanlin.Jincsu.edu.cnXu Liqun lilyxu1983126.com1 Department of Neurology Xiangya Hospital Central South University 87 Xiangya road Changsha Hunan ChinaImmunosuppressive therapy is recommended in the treatment of MG. Tacrolimus Tac is widely used in transcription and is also recommended for MG because of clinical practice and international consensus guidance for the management of MG 4.
Japanese researchers previously investigated the association between Tac concentration and its clinical efficacy in the treatment of MG 7. They verified that more patients receiving an adequate Tac concentration achieved Bminimal manifestation or better status compared with patients with a lower concentration. Given the limited research on the Tac pharmacodynamic pathways it is important to consider the association among the pharmacodynamics of Tac and drug response for individualized medicine.As a calcineurin inhibitor Tac suppresses the dephosphorylation of NFAT by binding to FKBP1A after entering T cells 8 leading to suppression of IL-2 transcription 9 and immunosuppression of the development of autoimmune diseases 10. The IL-2 gene polymorphisms were reported to be associated with the development of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis 11 psoriasis 12 and acquired aplastic anemia 13. However there are no studies examining the influence of IL-2 gene polymorphisms on Tac clinical outcomes in MG patients.Because of the roles of IL-2 in Tac pharmacodynamics we postulated that the polymorphisms of this gene influence Tac clinical efficacy in MG patients. Therefore we investigated the relationship between the polymorphisms of IL-2 and Tac response in MG patients.
end. Patients end. Ninety-two MG patients were treated with Tac in this study at the Xiangya Hospital of Central South University between January 2014 and March 2018. All patients were diagnosed with myasthenia gravis according to clinical electrophysiological and pharmacological criteria 14 and were currently receiving Tac orally as the main immunosuppressant. Patients were excluded who had received plasma exchange intravenous immunoglobulin or other immunosuppressants Tac and GCs were excluded. Continuous therapy with GCs was administered in the first month of tacrolimus therapy. Then GCs were slowly reduced to a dosage of approximately 5 mg per week during the second month of tacrolimus therapy. All patients received a daily dosage of 13 mg tacrolimus according to the different constitutions of the patients. Additionally weobtained blood samples on the 15th day of the 1st month of tacrolimus therapy to measure tacrolimus blood concentration with immune turbidimetry. The Tac therapy was considered effective when quantitative MG QMG scores improved by  3 15. All 92 participants were divided into two groups for comparison tacrolimus effective n  57 vs. tacrolimus ineffective n  35.
The certificate number is 201703107. Genotyping. Genomic DNA was isolated from samples for genotyping using phenol-chloroform extraction. All samples were genotyped for the presence of four single-nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs rs2069763 rs2069772 rs2069762 and rs2069776 in the IL-2 gene. The SNPs were selected according to the occurrence rates in Chinese patients CHBS in the 1000 Genomes database and our previous research 16. All the selected SNPs met the criteria of Tag SNPs. The SNPs were detected by the improved multiplex ligation detection reaction iMLDR in which the multiplex PCR-ligase detection reaction method was used 17 18 with technical support from Genesky Biotechnologies Inc. Shanghai China 19. For each SNP the alleles were distinguished by different fluorescent labels of allele-specific oligonucleotide probe pairs. Two negative controls were set one with double-distilled water as a template and the other with a DNA sample without primers with all other conditions the same in a single plate. Duplicate tests were designed and no differences were exhibited. Big Dye-terminator version 3.1 and an ABI3730XL automated sequencer Applied Biosystems were used to sequence a random sample of approximately 5% of the total DNA samples to confirm the results of the iMLDR.
Categorical data were analyzed by the chi-square test or Fishers exact test and continuous data were analyzed with Students t test or the Mann-Whitney test. The HardyWeinberg equilibrium HWE was determined using PLINK software. Linkage disequilibrium LD and haplotype frequencies between SNPs were determined using Haploview software 20. Haplotypes were inferred using the solid spine of the LDmethod. The D values for allele combinations were calculated. Chi-square or Fishers exact tests were performed with GraphPad Prism 7 and used to analyze the distribution of genotypes and allelic frequencies of SNPs and haplotype frequencies among polymorphisms in the two groups. A p value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results end. end. Population characteristics. Ninety-two patients were enrolled in this study. Of the MG patients genotyped 57 patients 62% were considered tacrolimus effective and 35 38% were considered tacrolimus ineffective. The clinical features of patients are summarized in Table 1.SNPs affecting clinical efficacyThe general characteristics of the genotyping data of the four SNPs are shown in Table 2. The genotypic distribution of these four SNPs in IL-2 conformed to the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium P  0.090.51.
Genotypes G/T and G/G of rs2069762 were differently distributed between the two groups when the wild genotype T/T was assigned as a reference P < 0.001 for G/T P  0.003 for G/G. Patients with the G/T or G/G genotype tended to have unsatisfactory clinical responses to tacrolimus G/T OR  6.88 95% CI 2.3021.3 G/G OR  6.19 95% CI 1.819.7. The G alleles in rs2069762 also exhibited a significantly different distribution using the wild T allele as the reference P < 0.001. No significant differences were found for rs2069776 rs2069772 and rs2069763 for genotype and allelic frequencies between the two groups of patients. The specific information regarding genotype and allelic distribution of SNPs is shown in Table 3. Haplotype association analysis. The LD estimates and haplotype block in the four SNPs of IL2 are presented in Fig. 1 end. Dark red represents a strong linkage disequilibrium in the figure. The haplotypes in order werers2069776 rs2069772 2069763 and rs2069762. Overall we identified a total of five common haplotypes. Then we performed a comparison of haplotype frequency between the two groups. Patients with the TAGG haplotype tended to be tacrolimus ineffective P < 0.001 OR 0.15 95% CI 0.05 0.43. General data from the haplotype analysis of these four SNPs are shown in Table 4.
Tacrolimus is an immunosuppressant drug that belongs to the calcineurin inhibitor family used for the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as organ transplantation 21 systemic lupus erythematosus 22 and MG 23. In a previous study the response to treatment with Tac exhibits substantial interand intraindividual variability 24. In recent years the clinical application of tailored-based strategies to improve the efficacy and safety of Tac treatment has become the greatest challenge in Tac pharmacological research. There is an increasing role for genetic biomarkers as predictors for drug efficacy in personalized medicine. Many factors could influence individual Tac response including genetic and clinical factors e.g. age gender concomitant medications. Many previous studies concerning Tac pharmacology in MG patients have concentrated on Tac pharmacokinetics whereas few studies have examined the pharmacodynamics of Tac in MG.Studies have demonstrated that as an autocrine product from activated CD4 T cells IL-2 has pleiotropic effects on the immune system such as inducing the production of proinflammatory cytokines and preventing autoimmunity by stimulating Treg cells 25 26.
According to the NCBI database www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/3558 the IL-2 gene included four exons and three introns and is located on chromosome 4 from 122449479 to 122456495 NCVariables Effective n  5762% Ineffective n  3538% P value000004.12. After entering T cells Tac interferes with the bioactivity of calcineurin by binding to FKBP1A and forming a complex 10. Then IL-2 expression changes because of dephosphorylation of NF-AT. It has been revealed that Tac can inhibit the expression of IL-2 in renal allograft recipients 27.As a potent immunosuppressant in MG therapy Tac has become the cornerstone of current immunosuppressive maintenance therapy but it has an inadequate clinical effect limited by the narrow therapeutic range and individual differences. A previous study showed that SNPs in the critical genes of the pharmacokinetics process such as MDR1 CYP3A4 andCYP3A5 play important roles in Tac inter- and intrabioavailability 6. Few studies have examined the clinical efficacy of Tac because of the lack of a standardized and accurate definition of Tac treatment outcomes. Ponseti et al. 15 treated 212 MG patients with 0.1 mg/kg/day of Tac and the minimum 12-month follow-up showed clinically meaningful improvements in QMG scores at 3 months.
In the present study we observed that the patients with the rs2069762 variant tended to be Tac ineffective. Those with the G/Tand G/G genotype in rs2069762 were also more likely to be Tac ineffective. One haplotype TAGG containing this mutation was identified among the Tac effective patients compared with the Tac ineffective patients indicating the association of rs2069762 with a Tac nonresponse. To our knowledge there is no validation for the direct association of the IL2 gene with the Tac response pathway. Previous researchers have revealed that the rs2069762 T>Gmutation located in the 5 flanking region of IL-2 could affect gene transcriptional regulation and further influence the function or expression of IL-2 in multiple sclerosis 11 and acquired aplastic anemia13. Therefore we infer that the rs2069762 mutation in a location where the IL-2 gene binds to transcription factors might offer a mechanism for Tac clinical efficacy. Thus it is necessary to validate the association of this mutation with the Tac response.
Myasthenia gravis is a rare disease and no standardized definition was recommended for Tac efficacy and therefore it was difficult to enroll a large number of patients in this study. Consequently the main limitations of our study were its small sample size and lack of further validation. Future studies with larger sample sizes and further validation will be required to confirm our findings.Acknowledgments The authors acknowledge the support by the nurses affiliated to the Outpatient Clinic of the Department of Neurology in Xiangya Hospital.Sources of funding This study was financially supported by grants from the National Nature Science Foundation of China grant numbers 8177051973 81571173 and 81501034.Compliance with ethical standardsThe study was approved by the Ethics Committ. ee of the Xiangya Hospital of Central South and all patients provided written informed consent. The certificate number is 201703107.Conflict of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.Publishers note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Gender differences in prednisone adverse effects.
Method TheMGpatient registry is a patient-driven nation-wide database with patients of age 18 years who were diagnosed with MG and live in the United States. Custom-designed prednisonesteroid use and MG survey was sent out to MG registry participants as part of semi-annual follow-up. Data were collected and analyzed for frequency. Results A total of 398 MG participants 21% response rate completed the survey including 173 men and 225 women. Among them 298 reported current 174 or past 288 prednisone intake. Current prednisone dosage varied from 0.5 to 75 mg median 10 mg IQR 720 dosing frequency was daily in 132 76% and every other day in 31 18%. Peak prednisone dose was commonly between 25 mg and 60 mg Median 50 mg IQR 2560 however doses more than 60 mg daily were reported in 59 20%. Prednisone AEs were reported more commonly in women 95% vs 81% p < 0.0001. Women reported more intolerable AEs 77% vs 50% p < 0.00001 and less willingness to accept a dose increase 26% vs 44% p  0.03 compared with men. Conclusions Prednisone is commonly used in the treatment of MG with highly variable dosages and dosing frequencies reflecting the absence of a standard guideline. Intolerable AEs were more commonly reported among women and was associated with unwillingness to accept a dose increase.
From the Department of Neurology I.L. University of Alabama Birmingham Department of Neurology H.J.K. the George Washington University and Department of Biostatistics T.M. M.F. G.C. University of Alabama Birmingham. Funding information and disclosures are provided at the end of the article. Full disclosure form information provided by the authors is available with the full text of this article at Neurology.org/NN. The Article Processing Charge was funded by MG registry. Ethical publication statementWe confirm that we have read the Journals position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report is consistent with those guidelines. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal. Copyright  2018 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 1 Prednisone has been shown to be effective in treating myasthenia gravis MG and is currently used as a first-line immunosuppressive therapy.
These AEs tend to increase with higher doses more frequent dosing and prolonged treatment period. The frequency of steroid AEs has been reported in up to 67% of treated populations and is likely underestimated. Clinicians are concerned of serious AEs such as osteoporosis-related fracture aseptic necrosis infection and gastrointestinal bleeding. AEs that are clinically considered benign can still be disturbing from the patients perspective and might lead to the request of dose reduction or poor compliance. Tapering the dose of prednisone while maintaining disease control has become a treatment goal in MG care and an important end point in MG clinical trials. Recent analyses from the MG patient registry showed that women were less likely to be on current prednisone treatment despite having worse disease severity ratings compared with men. We suspect that this observation is due to gender differences in the frequency or tolerability of steroid AEs however we found no studies that systemically evaluated this hypothesis in the MG population. Therefore we designed a survey of MG registry participants regarding AEs and personal beliefs governing the use of prednisone to delineate potential gender effects on the perception of prednisone AEs.
Details of the registry registry participants mode of data collection and collected participant-reported outcome measures were described in the previous study. We composed a Prednisone-Steroid use and MG Survey Prednisone Survey which included 11 questions asking the participants about the status of prednisone use current and highest doses and frequencies AEs experienced and willingness to increase steroid dose for better disease control. The 33 items included in the AEs list were derived from MGTX treatment-associated symptoms and treatment-associated complications. Participants were asked to select AEs they experienced from taking steroid prednisone and select them once more if any of them were difficult to tolerate appendix e-1 links.lww.com/NXI/A77. This survey was sent to the MG registry participants along with the semi-annual followup for those who enrolled before April 15 2017. Inclusion and exclusion criteria Patients age 18 years who answered Yes to Has your doctor diagnosed you with MG resided in the United States and completed the 9th semi-annual follow-up survey before November 29 2017 were included.
The Student t-test was used to compare continuous variables such as age age at symptom onset age at treatment onset current dose highest dose treatment duration MGquality of life 15 MG-QOL15 and MG activity of daily living MG-ADL sum scores. Categorical variables such as sex race thymoma thymectomy intensive care unit ICU admission in the past feeding tube in the past current and past prednisone use current use of immunosuppressant agents current intravenous immunoglobulin IVIG treatment and current plasma exchange PLEX treatment were summarized and compared using the Fisher exact test. A p value less than 0.05 was used for statistical significance without adjustments for multiple comparisons because of the exploratory nature of this article. SAS version 9.4 and programs from the R project version 3.3. 2 were used for statistical analysis. Data availability statement Data not provided in the article because of the space limitations will be made available in a trusted data repository or shared at the request of other investigators for purposes of replicating results.
Results One thousand eight hundred fifty-nine MG patient registry enrollees received the 9th semi-annual follow-up and the Prednisone Survey irrespective of whether they had ever responded to a semi-annual update after registration. Among them 398 participants responded to the 9th semi-annual Glossary AE  adverse effect ICU  intensive care unit IRB  institutional review board IVIG  IV immunoglobulin treatmentMG  myasthenia gravis PLEX  current plasma exchange UAB  University of Alabama at Birmingham. 2 Neurology Neuroimmunology  Neuroinflammation  Volume 5 Number 6  November 2018 Neurology.org/NN follow-up survey and Prednisone Survey 21% response rate. When the demographics of survey responders were compared with nonresponders survey responders were more likely to be white and older at enrollment. Among the 398 Prednisone Survey responders 100 participants answered that they were never treated with prednisone and that the survey was ended no-prednisone group. The remainder 298 participants who answered that they took prednisone prednisone group in the past or are currently taking prednisone completed the survey.
Among the 298 participants in the prednisone group 173 58% were currently receiving prednisone. Peak prednisone dose was reported most commonly between 25 and 60 mg median 50 mg IQR 2560 however doses more than 60 mg daily were reported in 59 20%. Peak dosage was daily in 249 83% and every other day in 18 6%. Current prednisone dosage varied from 0.5 to 75 mg median 10 mg IQR 720. Current prednisone dosing frequency was daily in 132 76% and every other day in 31 18%. Among the survey responders who took prednisone women were younger younger at the age of initiation of steroid treatment lower in weight higher in MG-QOL15 and MG-ADL worse scores and more likely to report an MG exacerbation in the past 6 months. The rate of treatment with prednisone current prednisone treatment current dose highest dose treatment duration and dosing frequency were comparable between men and women. Women were more likely to answer that their steroid dose was lowered from the highest dose because of AEs compared with men.
Women reported prednisone AEs and intolerable AEs more commonly compared with men 95% vs 81% 77% vs 50% respectively. Women reported weight gain increased appetite changed appearance moon face prominent scar increased hair loss gingival hyperplasia mood swing depression fatigue poor concentration headache sleeplessness and palpitationmore commonly thanmen.When asked about intolerable AEs women reported more frequently than men including weight gain changed appearance moon face depression fatigue mood swing increased hair loss sleeplessness and stomach complaints table 3. The group of responders who reported intolerable AEs INTOL were more likely to be women younger in age who took a higher peak dose of prednisone and were less likely to say yes when asked to increase prednisone dose for worsened MG compared with the group reporting no intolerable AEs NO INTOL from prednisone. MG exacerbation in the past 6 months was more frequent in the group with intolerable AEs and MG-QOL15 and MG-ADL sum scores were significantly higher worse compared with the no intolerable AE group table 4.
% 34%  0.03 Current IVIG % 17% 19% 10%  0.03 Current PLEX % 3.7% 3.4% 5%  NS MG-ADL SD 5.2 4.1 5.5 4.1 4.4 3.9  0.016 Abbreviations ICU  intensive care unit IVIG  intravenous immunoglobulin MG-ADL  myasthenia gravis activity of daily living NS  not significant PLEX  plasma exchange. Neurology.org/NN Neurology Neuroimmunology  Neuroinflammation  Volume 5 Number 6  November 2018 3 Discussion In our study majority of the participants took prednisone for the treatment of MG whereas a quarter answered that they did not take prednisone. Those who did not take prednisone generally had less severe disease however a significant proportion of these participants had severe enough disease that required immunosuppression IVIG or PLEX. Among participants who took prednisone the reported prednisone usage patterns were variable in terms of dosages and dosing frequencies. Comparable peak dosage between men and women suggests that the dosing in this population is not commonly based on ideal body weight. Daily dosing was the predominant dosing frequency especially at the peak dose 84% despite literature that supports the use of alternate-day dosing to decrease AEs.
The efficacy of the corticosteroid medications such as prednisone rely on its pleiotropic effects on the glucocorticoid receptors through multiple signaling pathways which inevitably evoke physiologic signaling along with its anti-inflammatory effect. Women in this study not only reported AEs more commonly but also perceived them as more intolerable compared with men. Consistent with this result women more frequently reported that the dosage of prednisone had to be lowered because of AEs. Experiencing intolerable AEs was associated with a tendency to be resistant to a possible future dose increase if needed for an MG exacerbation and this was more common in women. A previous study that looked at symptom experience associated with chronic immunosuppressive treatment in heart transplant recipients and the result showed that clear gender difference exists. In the study women reported adverse symptomsmore frequently with a higher distress level and the pattern of symptoms was different from men. Women also experienced more AEs in the MG patient registry the MG population treated with long-term steroids. There are many potential factors that might explain this observation. Physiologically women have lower height and weight compared with men.
Table 2 Comparison of the basic demographic disease-related history Prednisone Survey results and patient-reported outcomes between male and female survey responders. Method end. TheMGpatient registry is a patient-driven nation-wide database with patients of age 18 years who were diagnosed with MG and live in the United States. Custom-designed prednisonesteroid use and MG survey was sent out to MG registry participants as part of semi-annual follow-up. Data were collected and analyzed for frequency. Results end. A total of 398 MG participants 21% response rate completed the survey including 173 men and 225 women. Among them 298 reported current 174 or past 288 prednisone intake. Current prednisone dosage varied from 0.5 to 75 mg median 10 mg IQR 720 dosing frequency was daily in 132 76% and every other day in 31 18%. Peak prednisone dose was commonly between 25 mg and 60 mg Median 50 mg IQR 2560 however doses more than 60 mg daily were reported in 59 20%. Prednisone AEs were reported more commonly in women 95% vs 81% p < 0.0001. Women reported more intolerable AEs 77% vs 50% p < 0.00001 and less willingness to accept a dose increase 26% vs 44% p  0.03 compared with men. Conclusions.
Intolerable AEs were more commonly reported among women and was associated with unwillingness to accept a dose increase. Consensus guidelines and their validation are required to guide prednisone treatment for MG.From the Department of Neurology I.L. University of Alabama Birmingham Department of Neurology H.J.K. the George Washington University and Department of Biostatistics T.M. M.F. G.C. University of Alabama Birmingham.Funding information and disclosures are provided at the end of the article. Full disclosure form information provided by the authors is available with the full text of this article at Neurology.org/NN.The Article Processing Charge was funded by MG registry.Ethical publication statementWe confirm that we have read the Journals position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report is consistent with those guidelines.This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4. 0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal.Copyright  2018 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
1Prednisone has been shown to be effective in treating myasthenia gravis MG and is currently used as a first-line immunosuppressive therapy.16 The use of prednisone however is often limited because of the numerous short- and long-term adverse effects AEs associated with its glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid activities. These AEs tend to increase with higher doses more frequent dosing and prolonged treatment period.713 The frequency of steroid AEs has been reported in up to 67% of treated populations23 and is likely underestimated. Clinicians are concerned of serious AEs such as osteoporosis-related fracture aseptic necrosis infection and gastrointestinal bleeding. AEs that are clinically considered benign can still be disturbing from the patients perspective and might lead to the request of dose reduction or poor compliance.
valuated this hypothesis in the MG population. Therefore we designed a survey of MG registry participants regarding AEs and personal beliefs governing the use of prednisone to delineate potential gender effects on the perception of prednisone AEs. Methods end. The MG patient registry is a database managed by the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America and the coordinating center at the University of Alabama at Birmingham UAB with oversight by the UAB Institutional Review Board IRB. Details of the registry registry participants mode of data collection and collected participant-reported outcome measures were described in the previous study.17We composed a Prednisone-Steroid use and MG Survey Prednisone Survey which included 11 questions asking the participants about the status of prednisone use current and highest doses and frequencies AEs experienced and willingness to increase steroid dose for better disease control. The 33 items included in the AEs list were derived from MGTX treatment-associated symptoms and treatment-associated complications.14 Participants were asked to select AEs they experienced from taking steroid prednisone and select them once more if any of them were difficult to tolerate appendix e-1 links.lww.com/NXI/A77.
Inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients age 18 years who answered Yes to Has your doctor diagnosed you with MG resided in the United States and completed the 9th semi-annual follow-up survey before November 29 2017 were included. Statistical analysis. Basic demographic disease-related history and answers to the survey questions were compared between survey responders vs nonresponders responder with prednisone use vs no prednisone use male vs female responders and responders with intolerable AEs vs no intolerable AEs. The Student t-test was used to compare continuous variables such as age age at symptom onset age at treatment onset current dose highest dose treatment duration MGquality of life 15 MG-QOL15 and MG activity of daily living MG-ADL sum scores. Categorical variables such as sex race thymoma thymectomy intensive care unit ICU admission in the past feeding tube in the past current and past prednisone use current use of immunosuppressant agents current intravenous immunoglobulin IVIG treatment and current plasma exchange PLEX treatment were summarized and compared using the Fisher exact test. A p value less than 0.05 was used for statistical significance without adjustments for multiple comparisons because of the exploratory nature of this article.
2 were used for statistical analysis. Data availability statement. Data not provided in the article because of the space limitations will be made available in a trusted data repository or shared at the request of other investigators for purposes of replicating results.Standard protocol approvals registrations and patient consents General registry and each study and/or survey obtains approval by the UAB IRB and consent for participation is believed to be obtained when each participant completes their survey.17. Results end. One thousand eight hundred fifty-nine MG patient registry enrollees received the 9th semi-annual follow-up and the Prednisone Survey irrespective of whether they had ever responded to a semi-annual update after registration. Among them 398 participants responded to the 9th semi-annual. Glossary end. AE  adverse effect ICU  intensive care unit IRB  institutional review board IVIG  IV immunoglobulin treatmentMG  myasthenia gravis PLEX  current plasma exchange UAB  University of Alabama at Birmingham.2 Neurology Neuroimmunology  Neuroinflammation  Volume 5 Number 6  November 2018 Neurology.org/NNfollow-up survey and Prednisone Survey 21% response rate.
Among the 398 Prednisone Survey responders 100 participants answered that they were never treated with prednisone and that the survey was ended no-prednisone group. The remainder 298 participants who answered that they took prednisone prednisone group in the past or are currently taking prednisone completed the survey. Compared with the no-prednisone group the prednisone group had higher worse MG-ADL score at enrollment reported more frequent ICU admission and was more likely to be receiving an immunosuppressant and IVIG treatment table 1.Among the 298 participants in the prednisone group 173 58% were currently receiving prednisone. Peak prednisone dose was reported most commonly between 25 and 60 mg median 50 mg IQR 2560 however doses more than 60 mg daily were reported in 59 20%. Peak dosage was daily in 249 83% and every other day in 18 6%. Current prednisone dosage varied from 0.5 to 75 mg median 10 mg IQR 720. Current prednisone dosing frequency was daily in 132 76% and every other day in 31 18%.Among the survey responders who took prednisone women were younger younger at the age of initiation of steroid treatment lower in weight higher in MG-QOL15 and MG-ADL worse scores and more likely to report an MG exacerbation in the past 6 months.
Women also answered no more frequently than men when asked if your MG symptoms worsen are you willing to try a dose of steroid prednisone higher than your current dose or to start steroid if not on it currently. This gender difference was not observed when asked if your MG symptoms worsen significantly are you willing to try your previous highest dose steroid prednisone or if currently on your highest dose to increase it further table 2.Women reported prednisone AEs and intolerable AEs more comm. only compared with men 95% vs 81% 77% vs 50% respectively. Women reported weight gain increased appetite changed appearance moon face prominent scar increased hair loss gingival hyperplasia mood swing depression fatigue poor concentration headache sleeplessness and palpitationmore commonly thanmen.When asked about intolerable AEs women reported more frequently than men including weight gain changed appearance moon face depression fatigue mood swing increased hair loss sleeplessness and stomach complaints table 3.The group of responders who reported into.
MG exacerbation in the past 6 months was more frequent in the group with intolerable AEs and MG-QOL15 and MG-ADL sum scores were significantly higher worse compared with the no intolerable AE group table 4. Discussion. In our study majority of the participants took prednisone for the treatment of MG whereas a quarter answered that they did not take prednisone. Those who did not take prednisone generally had less severe disease however a significant proportion of these participants had severe enough disease that required immunosuppression IVIG or PLEX. Among participants who took prednisone the reported prednisone usage patterns were variable in terms of dosages and dosing frequencies. Comparable peak dosage between men and women suggests that the dosing in this population is not commonly based on ideal body weight.
physiologic signaling alongwith its anti-inflammatory effect.19 Women in this study not only reported AEs more commonly but also perceived them as more intolerable compared with men. Consistent with this result women more frequently reported that the dosage of prednisone had to be lowered because of AEs. Experiencing intolerable AEs was associated with a tendency to be resistant to a possible future dose increase if needed for an MG exacerbation and this was more common in women.A previous study that looked at symptom experience associated with chronic immunosuppressive treatment in heart transplant recipients and the result showed that clear gender difference exists.18 In the study women reported adverse symptomsmore frequently with a higher distress level and the pattern of symptoms was differ. ent from men. Women also experienced more AEs in the MG patient registry the MG population treated with long-term steroids. There are many potential factors that might explain this observation. Physiologically women have lower height and weight compared with men.
Female sex and oral contraceptive use have been associated with lower prednisolone clearance and volume of distribution increasing the area under the curve in healthy volunteers and kidney lung and heart transplant recipients.20 Women in the MG registry generally have more severe disease compared with men17 which might have led to higher cumulative dosage exposure. The peak and current dosages and treatment durations were comparable between the sexes in our study however this may not precisely reflect the cumulative dosage of prednisone because of its highly variable titration and tapering courses.AEs related to appearance and social interactions were significantly more likely to be intolerant in women compared with men suggesting that the study result might have been affected by different perception of AEs between the 2 sexes. For example altered appearance was 2.5 times more likely to be intolerable by women than men. Weight gain acne bruises loss of sexual interest depression fatigue increased hair loss mood swing moon face weight gain and stomach complaints all weremore frequently noted as intolerable AEs in women.
This observation is not surprising because studies showed that women as a groupmaintainmore social contacts communicate more frequently and strive to stay in the center of a social network.2122 In the same context women are more cognizant of their visual appearance as shown by the study of the social network using Facebook a large social network service.22Experiencing AEs is known to affect quality of life and can trigger medication noncompliance.2326 The result from our study also demonstrates . that having intolerable AEs might lead to resistance in prednisone dose increase when it isneeded for MG treatment. Participants who reported intolerable AEs were more likely to be women younger had more severe disease and were treated with higher peak dose of prednisone. These findings might simply indicate that those with more severe disease received higher dosages of prednisone and therefore developed intolerable AEs. Alternatively initial high dose of prednisone challenge might have caused intolerable AEs and resistance to future prednisone treatment leading to incomplete disease control. In the latter case applying a strategy to avoid intolerable AEs might positively affect the patients perception and compliance with prednisone a potential target to improve the treatment outcome.
Most of our patients were treated with long-term prednisone and it might be difficult to accurately remember and report various AEs they have experienced. Many of the patients were also treated with other medications including pyridostigmine immunosuppressants or received no MG-related medications making it difficult for them to link certain symptoms to specific medications. We also acknowledge that there might be a gender bias in reporting one way or another affecting the survey results. The responders of this particular survey were older and mostly white compared with nonresponders and may not reflect the whole MG patient registry population or patients with MG in the United States. The response rate for the semi-annual follow-up and Prednisone Survey was not high reflecting the early evolution of the registry and not having a way to exclude participants who agree with registration but prefer not to participate in semi-annual updates. As pointed out in our previous study data in the6 Neurology Neuroimmunology  Neuroinflammation  Volume 5 Number 6  November 2018 Neurology.org/NNregistry are entered by the participant and did not go through confirmation by a physician.
Nonetheless we believe that the value of our study lies in the data collected to represent the perspective of patients without significant influence from the providers. Ultimately the final decision whether or not to take the medicine is on the patient not the treating physician.In summary subjective treatment-associated AEs are extremely common in patients taking prolonged oral corticosteroids such as prednisone more frequent in women with higher tendency for intolerance. Experiencing intolerable AEs is linked to resistance in increasing the dose of prednisone when it is needed for the treatment of underlying disease. Consensus guidelines and their validation are required to guide prednisone treatment for MG. Acknowledgment. The authors express their gratitude to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America for their efforts in establishing and maintaining the Myasthenia Gravis Patient Registry. Study funding. No targeted funding reported. Disclosure. I end. Lee reports no disclosures. H.J end.
T end. McPherson received research support from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. M end. Feese received research support from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. G.R end. Cutter served on the scientific advisory boards of AMO Pharmaceuticals Apotek Horizon Modigenetech/Prolor Merck Merck/Pfizer Onkobiologics Neurim Sanofi-Aventis Reata Pharmaceuticals Receptos/Celgene Teva NHLBI and NICHD is a statistical reviewer for the Am Journal of the Society of Nephrology consulted for Atara Biotherapeutics Argenix Bioeq GmBH Consortium of MS Centers Genzyme Genentech Innate Therapeutics Klein-Buendel Incorporated MedImmune Medday Novartis Opexa Therapeutics Roche Savara In. c Somahlution Teva Transparency Life Sciences and TG Therapeutics is president of Pythagoras Inc received research support from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America NIH/NIAID DOD NIH/NHLBI the Consortium of MS Centers U.S. Department of Defense NIH/NIDDK BIH/Childrens Hospital Boston Alabama Department of Commerce NIH/NICHD NIH/National Eye Institute NIH/NINDS PCORI and NIH and is president of the Consortium of MS Centers only expenses covered. The MG Registry receives funding from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America.
Accepted in final form August 7 2018. Concurrent Graves disease thyrotoxicosis and myasthenia gravis the treatment of the former may dangerously reveal the latter. Autoimmune thyroxicosis and myasthenia gravis are often associated. In both diseases clinical features may include neuromuscular weakness making their distinction challenging. We report a patient with known Graves disease who presented with generalised fatigue initially attributed solely to thyrotoxicosis and who experienced severe respiratory failure linked to associated myasthenia gravis that was unmasked by medication used in the perioperative management of his thyroxicosis. Anaesthetists should always consider myasthenia gravis in cases of hyperthyroidism presenting with neuromuscular features. CASE REPORT. Concurrent Graves disease thyrotoxicosis and myastheniagravis the treatment of the former may dangerously revealthe latter. K end. Lakhal1 Y. Blel2 M end. Fysekidis3 K. Mohammedi3 and L. Bouadma2 end. end. 1 Specialist Anaesthetist and Intensivist and 2 Specialist Intensivist Service de Reanimation Medicale et Maladies Infectieuses and 3 Specialist Endocrinologist Service dEndocrinologie Hopital Bichat-Claude Bernard Paris France. end. Summary end.
In both diseases clinical features may include neuromuscular weakness making their distinction challenging. We report a patient with known Graves disease who presented with generalised fatigue initially attributed solely to thyrotoxicosis and who experienced severe respiratory failure linked to associated myasthenia gravis that was unmasked by medication used in the perioperative management of his thyroxicosis. Anaesthetists should always consider myasthenia gravis in cases of hyperthyroidism presenting with neuromuscular features........................................................................................................ Correspondance to Dr Karim Lakhal Email lakhalkarimyahoo.fr. Accepted 25 January 2008Thyrotoxicosis often includes neuromuscular features sometimes in the initial presentation 1. Also myasthenia gravis may be frequently associated with autoimmune hyperthyroidism 2. In case of coexistence of these two diseases the overlapping clinical features may cause diagnostic confusion. We report the case of a patient suffering with hyperthyroidism whose latent myasthenia was unmasked by the treatment used for his thyrotoxicosis. Case description.
His medical history included Graves disease diagnosed 1 year previously and treated with carbimazole which was discontinued by the patient 10 months prior to admission.Physical examination revealed a non tender goitre exophthalmos and signs of thyrotoxicosis warm moist skin tachycardia and palpitations along with hyper-thyroidism thyroid-stimulating hormone was low < 0.001 lU.ml1 by ultra sensitive third generation assay and thyroid hormones were increased above the upper limit of our laboratory. fT3 > 30 pmol.l1 and fT4 > 55 pmol.l1. Laboratory testing also revealed a serum creatine kinase of 352 U.l1 normal range 25 195 U.l1 and potassium of 3.6 mmol.l1 normal range 3.54.5 mmol.l1. Despite the lack of circulating thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies the diagnosis of Graves disease was confirmed on the basis of clinical and imaging findings diffuse symmetrical goitre on cervical ultrasonography and increased iodine uptake 37% of total iodine. The patient was commenced on an antithyroid drug but both carbimazole 60 mg per day for 7 days and propylthiouracil 450 mg per day for 5 days after 3 days with no antithyroid drug were complicated by granulocytopenia prompting their withdrawal.
Propranolol 120 mg per day was also given fromAnaesthesia 2008 63 pages 876879 doi10.1111/j.1365-2044.2008.05496.x .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................2008 The Authors 876 Journal compilation 2008 The Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Irelanddays 1 to 18 in order to relieve adrenergic symptoms. It was noted that the muscular weakness lasted despite all these medications.On day 20 following admission while thyroid hormone concentration was normal convulsions occurred and were controlled using 1 mg clonazepam. Cerebral CT scan and plasma glucose and calcium were normal. As neurological impairment Glasgow coma score 11  15 persisted along with hypoxaemia PaO2 12.3 kPa with nasal oxygen at 10 l.min1 and hypercapnia PaCO2 14.8 kPa the patient was then admitted to the intensive care unit. He was anaesthetised with etomidate 0.3 mg.kg1 and suxamethonium 1 mg.kg1 was used to facilitate orotracheal intubation. The convulsions were initially linked to thyrotoxicosis 4 and the respiratory failure was attributed to the post-ictal state the clonezepam and the thyrotoxic muscular weakness.
Four hours after tracheal extubation respiratory failure and inadequate cough required re-intubation facilitated by etomidate 0.3 mg.kg1 and suxamethonium 1 mg.kg1. The next day muscular testing revealed weakness in the limbs strength between 2  5 and 4  5 and major weakness and fatigue of axial musculature with inability to hold the head off the pillow. Pressure support of 20 cmH2O above an end-expiratory pressure of 5 cmH2O was required to deliver a tidal volume of 430 ml. Rather than the severe thyrotoxic myopathy initially considered a diagnosis of myasthenia gravis was then suggested. Indeed a nerve conduction velocity study revealed a neuromuscular transmission defect with repetitive stimulation of peripheral nerves exhibiting a decreased motor action potential up to a 50% decrement for the axial muscles and a 1350% decrement for the limbs. A test administration of neostigmine bromide 1 mg with 0.5 mg atropine was spectacularly effective and within 10 min the tidal volume had increased by more than 200 ml and a positive head lift test > 5 s and an increase in limb strength were observed. Circulating acetylcholine receptor antibodies were high 67.3 nM.l1 normal < 2 nM.l1. There was no thymic hyperplasia on chest CT scan.
The patient underwent total thyroidectomywithout the need for neuromuscular blockade as his trachea was already intubated. No complication was noted and the patient was discharged from the intensive care unit the following day. Discussion. We report the concurrence of Graves disease with myasthenia gravis and the potentially lethal consequences of the management of thyrotoxicosis which induced a severe myasthenic crisis.As in myasthenia gravis hyperthyroidism often includes muscular weakness 1 sometimes even responsible for dyspneoa 6 7. Graves disease is the major cause of hyperthyroidism. It is an autoimmune disorder in which antibodies bind to and stimulate the thyroid stimulating hormone receptors resulting in excessive synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormone. Thyrotoxicosis commonly affects the skeletal muscle but peripheral nerves may also be involved 8. A particular form of thyrotoxicosisassociated weakness thyrotoxic periodic paralysis may also be responsible for paralytic episodes with anaesthetic concerns 9. In our case thyrotoxicosis and hypokalaemia the two predominate biochemical abnormalities observed in thyrotoxic periodic paralysis were absent at the time of the respiratory failure.
That is not what we observed in our case. Therefore the diagnosis of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis seems very unlikely.Myasthenia is also an autoimmune disease causing weakness of striated muscles. The antibodies acetylcholine receptor antibodies target the neuromuscular junction causing accelerated degradation of acetylcholine receptors and inducing a functional acetylcholine receptor block. Moreover the complement activation induced by acetylcholine receptor antibodies may be the primary cause of neuromuscular transmission failure. Other antibodies may also be involved 11.In our case the patients weakness was initially attributed to thyrotoxicosis as suggested by the raised serum creatine kinase value before the convulsions. Nevertheless the finding of normal concentrations of thyroid hormones strongly suggestive clinical and electrophysiological data the dramatic effect of the neostigmine injection and the high concentration of circulating acetylcholine receptor antibodies led us to a second diagnosis of associated myasthenia gravis 12.The association of Graves disease with myasthenia gravis was first described in 1908 13. Since then this association has often been reported 1417. Of note up to 17.5% of known myasthenic patients were found to have hyperthyroidism 2.
Therefore distinguishing between myasthenic and thyrotoxic neuromuscular clinical features may be challenging 19. This case illustrates the importance of detecting an associated myasthenia gravis in a patient affected by Graves disease. Indeed the latter is often surgically treated and most of the medications used in the perioperative management can induce a myasthenic crisis such as benzodiazepines used to relief the frequent thyrotoxicosis-associated anxiety beta blockers used to decrease the adrenergic imbalance of thyrotoxicosis and nondepolarising neuromuscular blocking drugs used to facilitate the mandatory tracheal intubation in thyroidectomy surgery or even antibiotics. Our patient received several of these medications benzodiazepines beta blocker and he also received steroids as part of rapid preoperative preparation for thyroidectomy 3. In this setting steroids are also often used to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting 20 or to treat mild to severe exophthalmos 21. Unfortunately steroid therapy may also paradoxically worsen myasthenia gravis 22 through poorly understood mechanisms 23.
To our knowledge this is the first report highlighting the potentially deleterious role of commonly used drugs in this situation and suggesting implications for the anaesthetist. It is of utmost importance to exclude myasthenia gravis in patients with hyperthyroidism who have neuromuscular symptoms. Mycophenolate mofetil for myasthenia gravis a clear and present controversy. Correspondence Chad Heatwole Department of Neurology The University of Rochester Rochester New York USA Email chadheatwoleurmc.rochester.edu Abstract Mycophenolate mofetil MMF has been used to treat myasthenia gravis MG for over 10 years. MMFs use in the MG population stems from its theoretical mechanism of action and the medical literature that supports its benefi t in MG patients. Recently two large double-blinded placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials were initiated to study the effectiveness of MMF for MG. One of these studies found no benefi t in taking MMF with 20 mg of prednisone as compared to taking prednisone alone while the other study demonstrated no advantage in taking MMF against placebo during a 36-week prednisone taper. This article critically reviews the medical literature on MMFs use in MG and suggests further research avenues on this topic. 2008 Dove Medical Press Limited.
Chad Heatwole Emma Ciafaloni. Department of Neurology The University of Rochester Rochester New York USACorrespondence Chad Heatwole Department of Neurology The University of Rochester Rochester New York USA Email chadheatwoleurmc.rochester.eduthe medical literature that supports its benefi t in MG patients. Recently two large double-blinded placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials were initiated to study the effectiveness of MMF for MG. One of these studies found no benefi t in taking MMF with 20 mg of prednisone as compared to taking prednisone alone while the other study demonstrated no advantage in taking MMF against placebo during a 36-week prednisone taper. This article critically reviews the medical literature on MMFs use in MG and suggests further research avenues on this topic. Keywords myasthenia gravis mycophenolate mofetil CellCeptIntroduction Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disorder that affects the post-synaptic neuromuscular junction on skeletal muscle via autoantibody binding to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR Ab. Antibody binding directly disrupts transmission between nerve and muscle fi ber causing patients to experience fl uctuating fatigable weakness. Frequently symptoms such as dysarthria dysphagia ptosis and diplopia may occur.
affordable applicable to all myasthenia patients easily administered 100% effective and without adverse effects. Unfortunately a therapy that meets all of these characteristics has yet to be discovered. While corticosteroids are the most commonly used therapy for MG other immunosuppressing agents are also used 1 In cases where MG is refractory to corticosteroid treatment 2 As steroid-sparing agents and 3 In cases where severe corticosteroid side effects occur.Currently available immunomodulating medications have varying mechanisms of action and side effect profi les. Immunomodulating medications frequently used for MG include azathioprine cyclosporine cyclophosphamide tacrolimus intravenous immunoglobulin IVIG plasma exchange PLEX and mycophenolate mofetil. Thymectomy has also been identifi ed as an immunomodulating therapy for MG yet its true effi cacy has yet to be defi nitively proven. The debate on the optimal agent for long-term management of myasthenia is far from settled.Mycophenolate mofetil Mycophenolate mofetil MMF CellCept Roche is a synthesized pro-drug of mycophenolic acid that inhibits the immune system by preferentially depleting guanosine andNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 2008461204deoxygunaosine on both T and B-lymphocyte lines Allison and Eugui 2005.
Ultimately MMF is able to reduce the proliferation of T and B-lymphocytes and affect antibody formation and cell-mediated responses. MMF also acts on the immune system by 1 Reducing lymphocytic recruitment to infl ammation 2 Limiting tissue-damaging nitric oxide 3 Inhibiting the expression of adhesion molecules 4 Reducing the secretion of tumor necrosis factor alpha 5 Increasing the expression of interleukin-10 and 6 Elevating the rate of lymphocytic apoptosis Allison 2005 Schneider-Gold et al 2006. Given the unique immunosuppressive properties of MMF it has been tried as a therapy for many autoimmune conditions including lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis systemic vasculitis cerebral vasculitis multiple sclerosis MG pemphigus vulgaris psoriasis inflammatory eye disease Crohns disease Wegeners granulomatosis dysimmune polyneuropathies cluster headache infl ammatory myopathies and organ transplantation Epinette et al 1987 Enk and Knop 1997 Larkin and Lightman 1999 Neurath et al 1999 No. wack et al 1999 Meriggioli et al 2003 Rozen 2004 Cahoon and Kockler 2006 Schneider-Gold et al 2006.Unlike most other classes of immunosuppressant therapy MMF is not known to frequently produce major organ toxicity Ciafaloni et al 2001.
While cyclosporine and azathioprine may cause nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity respectively these potentially severe side effects are rare to non-existent with MMF use Lim et al 2007. MMF is also thought to have a lower rate of induced late malignancies than azathioprine and cyclophosphamide. In addition compared with corticosteroids MMF has fewer adverse effects on bone health weight cataract formation and hypertension Chaudhry et al 2001 Meriggioli et al 2003 Allison 2005.The use of MMF does carry some risk. There is currently a FDA black box warning that indicates that the use of MMF may increase ones susceptibility to infection the development of lymphoma and may increase the risk of pregnancy loss and congenital malformation in childbearing woman. The most common side effect of MMF is gastrointestinal intolerance usually diarrhea however nausea vomiting headaches bone marrow suppression sepsis hypertension tremor neoplasia depression teratogenicity and an increased risk of infection may occur Chaudhry et al 2001 Amato and Griggs 2003 Draper 2008.
have also been reported in MG patients taking MMF. These effects have included chronic heart failure primary CNS lymphoma a West Nile virus infection a severe depressive episode and a papulosquamous psoriatic-like skin eruption Meriggioli et al 2003 Levin et al 2005 Vernino et al 2005 Draper 2008. Although the exact relationship between MMF and these adverse conditions has not been proven close patient monitoring is certainly warranted for MG patients taking MMF.The optimal dose of MMF for MG is also unknown. Typical dosing for neuromuscular disease ranges from 1500 mg a day to 3000 mg a day divided into twice a day bid or 3 times a day dosing. MMF has a high absorption rate from the gut and is 97% protein bound Schneider-Gold et al 2006 Although plasma levels do not typically need to be checked it is recommended to monitor complete blood cell counts routinely given the potential for leucopenia anemia pancytopenia and agranulocytosis. While there is no direct contraindication in using MMF in conjunction with azathioprine this practice is generally discouraged given the similar mechanism of action of these two medications. Review of MMF use for MG. Up until 2008 the medical literature has largely been in favor of MMF for MG.
More recently two double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials have produced less positive results. We will review the medical literature here.To our knowledge the fi rst reported use of MMF for refractory MG was described in 1998 Hauser et al 1998. In this report a 26-year-old woman with MG manifesting with bulbar symptoms weakness and frequent hospitalizations was started on MMF at 500 mg 3 times a day. This patient noted benefi ts 5 days after receiving therapy. Her therapies prior to MMF included a transternal thymectomy azathioprine for 6 months discontinued secondary to nausea multipleNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 200846 1205plasma exchanges IVIG stopped due to nausea and syncope 10 sessions of 100 cGy total body irradiation 6 years of cyclosporine pyridostigmine and oral steroids. At the time of MMF use the patient was on cyclosporine 6 mg/kg/day prednisone 1 mg/kg/day alternating with 2 mg/kg/day and pyridostigmine 90 mg/day. Cyclosporine was discontinued at the same time MMF was started given an increase in the patients creatinine level. Benefi ts attributed to MMF at 15 months were a resolution in the patients dysarthria extremity weakness shortness of breath and a decrease in her hospitalization rate.
Like the aforementioned patient this woman had previously undergone a thymectomy and had both bulbar and extremity weakness. At the time MMF was added she was on a regimen consisting of cyclosporine 3.4 mg/kg/ day prednisone 40 mg/day of alternate-day treatment and pyridostigmine 360 mg/day. This patient had previously tried azathioprine but had to discontinue it due to liver toxicity. After taking MMF for 3 weeks this patient reported less fatigable weakness and after 11 months she was found to have improvement in her manual muscle testing and quantifi ed MG score. Her requirement for prednisone cyclosporine and pyridostigmine also decreased Meriggioli and Rowin 2000.Given the promising fi ndings of these case reports in 2001 Ciafaloni et al 2001 published an open-label pilot study evaluating the use of MMF for MG. This study evaluated 12 patients between the ages of 18 and 80 with acquired MG. Enrolled patients had either refractory MG to a regimen of prednisone and azathioprine or prednisone and cyclosporine or they required additional medications after taking corticosteroids for eight months. MMF was given at a rate of 1 g every 12 hours for 6 months.
Eleven of the 12 enrolled patients had a thymectomy 7 to 42 months prior to the study.The results of this study revealed that 6 patients taking MMF had improved QMG and MMT scores while two patients taking MMF had signifi cant reductions in their required corticosteroid dose. Of the 12 patients one demonstrated a worsening of both QMG and MMT scores.After 6 months Wilcoxon signed-rank sum analysis demonstrated improvements in MMT QMG and activities of daily living compared with baseline p  0.023 0.001 0.004 with treatment effects seen as early as two weeks. Single fiber EMG was also performed in this study population but did not change with therapy. Some patients did experience side effects from MMF. Two patients developed a transient hand tremor and 2 patients were found to have a decreased hemoglobin level although one was iron defi cient. With the exception of these four patients MMF was found to be well tolerated and safe Ciafaloni et al 2001.In 2001 a retrospective analysis of the use of MMF 1 g twice a day for neuromuscular diseases was reported by Chaudhry et al 2001. Of the patients studied 32 had MG 15 of which had previously undergone a thymectomy.
Of the 32 MG patients 22 had improvements in either functional status or prednisone requirement with a time to improvement ranging from 2 to 12 months. Ten of the MG patients experienced no benefi t after 8 months of use. In a subanalysis patients that showed a favorable response to therapy tended to have been diagnosed with MG for a much shorter time a mean of 7.5 months versus 14 years. Only 3 patients had been taking MMF as their only therapy in this study the rest were taking combinations of corticosteroids azathioprine cyclosporine-A methotrexate plasma exchange and iv immunoglobulin. Some side effects were attributed to MMF. Three patients taking MMF developed gastrointestinal side effects and one other developed a depressed mood while on therapy Chaudhry et al 2001.In 2001 MMF was also being studied for MG in Germany. Schenider et al reported its use in 2 patients with severe refractory MG and one patient with MG-polymyositis syndrome Schneider et al 2001. Patients received 1.5 to 2.0 g MMF daily. The fi rst patient with refractory MG had previously failed combination immunotherapy consisting of cyclosporine methotrexate azathioprine plasma exchange and oral corticosteroids. This patient was placed on MMF in combination with weekly plasma exchange and corticosteroid use.
This patient had previously failed a course of azathioprine and corticosteroids. He was subsequently given plasma exchange and started on MMF with remission achieved after 6 months.The last patient carried the diagnosis of MG-polymyositis syndrome. After experiencing a minimal resolve of her symptoms with corticosteroids azathioprine cyclosporine and plasma exchanges the patient was given MMF in place of her azathioprine. While on these multiple agents the patient experienced a resolve of her polymyositis symptoms within 6 months and was able to completely discontinue the use of her corticosteroids after 14 months. While on MMF this patient also developed a hemolytic anemia which responded to a MMF dose reduction of 2.0 g a day to 1.5 g a day.In a retrospective analysis of the use of MMF in 85 MG patients Meriggioli et al 2003 patients were included in the study if they 1 Carried the diagnosis of MG 2 Had been treated at one of two major university centers and 3 Had taken MMF for at least 3 months within the period February 1999 to September 2002. A determination of effi cacy was based on the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Americas MGFA post-intervention status scale.
For all indications 73% of patients showed improvement while 89% of patients taking MMF as the only therapy showed improvement. Eighty-one percent of patients improved with MMF as an adjunctive therapy however only 43% of patients with refractory MG improved with MMF. Thirty-six of the 62 patients taking simultaneous steroids were able to decrease their dose and 57% of the patients taking pyridostigmine were able to taper this medication while on MMF. The mean time to patient reported improvement was 8.8 weeks with a maximal improvement seen at 26.7 weeks. Of the 85 patients evaluated 2 worsened with therapy 5 discontinued MMF secondary to side effects and 23 patients had 1 or more side effects the most common side effects being nausea vomiting diarrhea or an increased rate of infection. In addition 1 patient developed an autoimmune granulocytopenia 1 patient had West Nile virus and 1 patient with cardiac valve disease developed congestive heart failure while taking MMF Meriggioli et al 2003.In 2003 the fi rst double-blind placebo controlled trial was performed to evaluate the effects of MMF 1 g twice a day versus placebo in 14 symptomatic stable MG patientsover a 5-month period Meriggioli et al 2003.
Patients who had taken azathioprine who were pregnant or who had purely ocular MG severe bulbar MG or were in crisis were excluded from the study. Patients were also required to be on a stable dose of prednisone or cyclosporine and have a stable baseline QMG score prior to entry. The primary measure of effi cacy was a change in QMG score while on treatment. QMG improved in the MMF group by an average of 2.86 points compared with 0.29 for placebo however this result was not statistically signifi cant p  0.30. A statistically signifi cant change in SFEMG values was noted between groups p  0.03 suggesting its potential use as an early biomarker to evaluate response to treatment Meriggioli and Rowin 2003. Changes in manual muscle testing and AChR Ab did not reach statistical signifi cance between the two groups. Patients in the MMF group had side effects that included diarrhea 2 patients insomnia 1 patient and urinary tract infections 2 patients Meriggioli et al 2003.Two years later a 5-patient case series of Asian patients was published on the use of MMF as an adjunctive therapy for refractory MG Prakash et al 2007.
Within 2 to 4 months of MMF initiation all patients demonstrated symptomatic improvement with maintained benefi ts ranging from 11 to 24 months. In addition all patients were able to reduce their corticosteroid dosage without any clinical relapse. With the exception of one patient who experienced initial nausea and diarrhea no patient had any signifi cant side effects from the MMF during this study Prakash et al 2007.MMF has been proposed as an alternative therapy for MG in patients who experience signifi cant side effects from other therapies. In a reported case series Lim et al 2007 demonstrated that MMF could be successfully substituted for cyclosporine in myasthenia patients with cyclosporineinduced nephrotoxicity. Two of 3 patients who switched to MMF experienced no neurological worsening of their MG with marked improvement of renal function once off cyclosporine. A third patient experienced improved renal function but had one signifi cant myasthenia exacerbation during MMF use Lim et al 2007.MM has also been studied in patients with purely ocular symptoms ocular MG Chan 2008. In a prospective observational study 31 patients with ocular MG and positive AChRNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 200846 1207Ab were identifi ed and evaluated.
Once ocular symptoms resolved each patients prednisone dose was tapered over a four week span. Researchers found that 87% 27/31 patients were able to tolerate the MMF. Of this group 93% 25/27 remained at MGFA class I for an average observation period of 4.2 years. Although there was no direct comparison group in this study the rate of decompensation to generalized myasthenia was thought to be equal or lower than ocular myasthenia patients taking azathioprine and/or corticosteroids compared with a separate retrospective study Sommer et al 1997 Chan 2008. Of the 4 patients who discontinued MMF during Chans study 3 cited persistent diarrhea while 1 discontinued the medication secondary to cost.After much anticipation in 2008 the results of 2 large scale double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials were published which tested the effi cacy of MMF in MG Sanders et al 2008 The Muscle Study Group 2008. The relatively surprising fi ndings from these studies have caused much discussion and deliberation in the neuromuscular community.The fi rst of these studies was implemented by the Muscle Study Group MSG and was designed to compare the use of MMF in combination with prednisone 20 mg/day versus prednisone 20 mg/day alone for generalized MG The Muscle Study Group 2008.
To be enrolled each patient had to be over 18 years have positive AChR Ab and have generalized MG of mild to moderate severity. Patients were excluded if they had previously used a non-corticosteroid immunomodulating agent had a fl uctuating pyridostigmine dosage 2 weeks before enrollment had a previously diagnosed thymoma had severe weakness or oropharyngeal/respiratory symptoms had a thymectomy within 12 months or if they had used corticosteroids PLEX or IVIG within 90 days before enrollment.Eighty patients were randomized to receive either 1.25 g of MMF twice a day and prednisone 20 mg/day or placebo and 20 mg/day of . prednisone. Patients were followed for 12 weeks then were given the option to take open-label MMF for an additional 6 months. The primary outcome variable was the total QMG score from baseline to 12 weeks with secondary outcome variables including the change in total myasthenia MMT score change in MG activities of daily living score change in forced vital capacity and change in SF-36v2 score.Results of this study found no difference between groups in the primary and secondary outcome measures. Side effects such as diarrhea abdominal cramping nausea and vomiting were more common in the MMF group than the placebo group.
Similarly to its companion study this study was prospective randomized multicentered and double-blinded. One-hundred and seventy-six patients with generalized MG and elevated AChR Ab were treated with at least 4 weeks of prednisone 20 mg/day or greater without additional immunosuppressive therapy before being randomized. Patients were then randomized to receive 36 weeks of prednisone and MMF at 2 g/day or prednisone and placebo. The primary endpoint was a composite measure defi ned as achievement of minimal manifestation or pharmacologic remission with reduction of corticosteroid dose on a set schedule Sanders et al 2008. Secondary endpoints included quality-of-life scores disease severity and safety.This study found that treatment with MMF was not superior to placebo during a steroid taper. There were no signifi cant differences in patient scores for QMG SF-36 MG activities of daily living or global assessment between the MMF and placebo groups. In addition serious infections occurred more frequently in the MMF group 8.0% compared with the placebo group 3.4%. One of these serious infections included a fatal pneumonia in a patient taking MMF.
Discussion. The collection of past research on MMFs role in MG treatment is neither exhaustive nor conclusive. Early reports and studies appear to hint at MMFs effi cacy while the latest placebo-controlled trials did not defi nitively prove its benefi t compared with placebo. Each of the above described articles is not without criticism. Early case reports are thought provoking but are subject to positive study bias. It is not known how many times MMF was previously used for MG without effect. Such failures are typically not submitted to or accepted by major publications. In addition signifi cantNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 2008461208confounding factors exist in many of the early publications. Most patients in these studies had a history of prior or coexisting treatments including corticosteroid use azathioprine cyclosporine thymectomy IVIG pyridostigmine or full body radiation. In many cases these therapies were being used or withdrawn during the evaluation period of MMF thus complicating the interpretation of results. In cases where a therapy had been discontinued prior to MMF use it is possible that long term or even delayed effects could have been inappropriately attributed to MMF.
Unfortunately none of the early studies were designed to evaluate such interference effects.Much scrutiny has been placed on the latest randomized clinical trials due to their relatively unexpected and perhaps contradictory fi ndings. Many clinicians and scientists have pondered how a medication that seemed so promising in preliminary reports could produce such a bland treatment response. Varied explanations have been proposed such as criticisms on the 1 Length of the studies 2 Selected patient populations 3 Concurrent use of prednisone 4 Multicenter approach and 5 The primary effi cacy measures. Many clinicians have adamantly defended MMFs use based on prior clinical experience while dismissing the results of the latest two clinical trials. The scientifi c and clinical communities should be careful not to completely disregard the results of these latest two trials. Instead these trials should be accepted for what they are two pieces of evidence in a rich tapestry of knowledge on MMFs use for MG.In some aspects it is not overly surprising that the latest recorded effects of MMF in MG were negative.
In addition it is possible that the latest clinical trials did not evaluate the myasthenia patients that would have experienced the greatest benefi t from taking MMF. While the Muscle Study Groups trial was well planned carefully executed and adequately analyzed it only addressed the question of MMFs usefulness in a very small subpopulation of MG patients over a very specifi c and perhaps too short time frame in the context of both concurrent prednisone use and a specifi c and perhaps understudied primary endpoint. While some literature suggests the early effi cacy of MMF the retrospective study of 85 patients reported a maximal objective benefi t only at an average of 26.7 weeks Meriggioli et al 2003. It is possible that a separation in effi cacy wouldhave been demonstrated had the trial been carried out for a longer period of time. Also while quantifi able few would argue that the QMG score is the perfect measure of therapy effectiveness. The MSG study was powered to detect a difference of 3 points on the QMG score between the two arms. It is diffi cult to know for certain if this was the most appropriate clinical difference in which to base an outcome measure.Likewise there are similar limitations in the 2008 Sanders et al MMF clinical trial.
Like the Muscle Groups study the results of this trial should only be extrapolated to the select MG population that shares a profi le with those studied in this clinical trial.Another possible explanation for the negative results of the 2008 clinical trials is that the benefi t of low dose prednisone and MMF on moderately affected MG patients is not additive. MMF was not studied in isolation but rather as an add-on therapy to prednisone. Further studies on the effi cacy of MMF as a monotherapy against placebo or as an add-on therapy to other non-steroid immunosuppressive therapies should be performed to address this hypothesis.In the future the use of MMF should be studied in a more generalizable myasthenia population. It is possible that the study populations in the negative clinical trials had such mild cases that an add-on medication would not produce any additional measurable benefi t. For this reason MMF should also be studied in patients with more severe MG or with MG refractory to corticosteroid treatment alone.Lastly it should be noted that a large discrepancy exists in the end point selection in most of the above listed studies.
Continued work will be required to fully identify and validate the ideal clinical outcomes for measuring changes in patient-relevant MG symptoms during future clinical studies.Based on the most recent studies diffi cult questions will soon be asked by the patients insurance companies and the public. The use of MMF for MG will likely be questioned. Physicians will have to decide on the best course of action for each individual patient based on what is currently available in the literature. Additional studies are required given theNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 200846 1209limitations of the last two negative clinical trials and the many unanswered questions regarding MMFs use for MG. Conclusions. Much work remains to determine MMFs true place in MG management. Despite recent studies questions still exist regarding MMFs long-term effi cacy optimal dose optimal population of use optimal length of use benefi t as a combination therapy and long-term safety profi le. These specifi c questions should be addressed via future prospective placebo-controlled studies. Disclosures. The authors have no confl icts of interest to disclose. High-dose rocuronium for rapid-sequence induction and reversal with sugammadex in two myasthenic patients.
The difficulties involved are several-fold ranging from the choice of an appropriate muscle relaxant i.e. one that enables safe and rapid airway management to neuromuscular monitoring and normal muscular recovery. Additionally optimizing patient conditions  either pharmacologically or with plasmapheresis  before intervention is well beyond the realm of possibility. We discuss the anesthetic management of two myasthenic patients undergoing emergency surgery for sigmoid perforation and upper gastrointestinal bleeding respectively. In both cases we opted for rapidsequence induction with high-dose rocuronium to prevent inhalation of gastric contents. We also report on the implication of neuromuscular monitoring. We found that the rocuronium sugammadex combination was a useful and effective option in the emergency setting. Case ReportHigh-dose rocuronium for rapid-sequence induction and reversal with sugammadex in two myasthenic patientsP. Casarotti C. Mendola G. Cammarota and F. Della Corte Department of Translational Medicine Maggiore Hospital School of Medicine Novara ItalyThe anesthetic management of patients affected by myasthenia gravis is usually challenging in elective surgery and even more so in emergency procedures.
one that enables safe and rapid airway management to neuromuscular monitoring and normal muscular recovery. Additionally optimizing patient conditions  either pharmacologically or with plasmapheresis  before intervention is well beyond the realm of possibility. We discuss the anesthetic management of two myasthenic patients undergoing emergency surgery for sigmoid perforation and upper gastrointestinalbleeding respectively. In both cases we opted for rapidsequence induction with high-dose rocuronium to prevent inhalation of gastric contents. We also report on the implication of neuromuscular monitoring. We found that the rocuronium sugammadex combination was a useful and effective option in the emergency setting.Accepted for publication 28 July 2014 2014 The Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley  Sons LtdElective surgery in individuals with myastheniagravis is often performed in hospitals with extensive experience in the perioperative management of the disease. In contrast emergency surgery may be necessary in any setting without any specific preparation e.g. pharmacologic optimization and plasmapheresis or possibility to postpone intervention until reaching the stable phase.1Myasthenia gravis causes a loss of cholinergic receptors.
ferences with neuromuscular plate homeostasis and cholinergic side effects otherwise resulting from use of anticholinesterases.79In this paper we discuss two emergency cases and report on the combined use of high-doserocuronium for rapid-sequence induction RSI and sugammadex as a reversal agent. Case report 1. A 48-year-old male weight 98 kg body mass index 32.7 kg/m2 required emergency laparotomy for sigmoid perforation. The patient had a history of myasthenia gravis in the active phase stage 1 in the OssermanGenkins classification scale10 treated with steroids. Ten years previously he had undergone thymectomy with a postoperative course complicated by lung atelectasis. Electrocardiogram and chest X-ray were normal. At induction of anesthesia heart rate was 92 bpm noninvasive blood pressure was 120/ 70 mmHg and oxygen saturation was 98% on room air.Airway evaluation was carried out in accordance with Italian guidelines.11 The following parameters were measured Mallampati score 1 thyro-mental distance > 6 cm interincisive distance > 3.5 cm cervical mobility normal. No potential factors predicting difficult mask ventilation and/or tracheal intubation were detected but there was a substantial risk of pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents because the patient had a full stomach.
All rights reserved 2014 The Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley  Sons LtdACTA ANAESTHESIOLOGICA SCANDINAVICAdoi 10.1111/aas.123911154The induction regimen involved administration of propofol as a hypnotic agent remifentanil for analgesia and to blunt the sympathetic response to laryngoscopy and rocuronium bromide 1.2 mg/kg of ideal body weight IBW. Both propofol and remifentanil were administered by target controlled infusion. Sugammadex 16 mg/kg was a key element of the emergency reversal plan. A videolaryngoscope a laryngeal mask airway and a LMA Fastrach Teleflex Medical srl Varedo Italy were also available in the operating room in case of difficult intubation or a cannot ventilate cannot intubate scenario.1214Neuromuscular function was monitored by acceleromyography using the Tof Watch Sx device Organon Ltd Dublin Ireland at the ulnar nerveadductor pollicis unit. Quantitative neuromuscular monitoring was started immediately before rocuronium administration so as to verify proper device operation and check for adequate muscle response. No fade was detected after the first stimulations and monitoring was done throughout the procedure.
Tracheal intubation was completed within seconds at the second attempt using a video-assisted technique already available in the theater. No desaturation episodes occurred and no ventilation was necessary between attempts.A sigmoid resection with colostomy was performed in about 2 h with no surgical complication and negligible blood loss. Anesthesia was maintained by target controlled infusion of propofol and remifentanil. No supplemental doses of rocuronium were needed because no responses were detected at post-tetanic count PTC during surgery. After the procedure the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit ICU with ongoing deep neuromuscular block PTC  0. When a PTC > 1 was observed sugammadex 400 mg 4 mg/kg of actual body weight ABW was administered. Neuromuscular transmission was restored in about 3 min with a train of four TOF ratio > 90%. Sedation was maintained and neuromuscular transmission monitored continuously for the next 30 min in order to detect signs of recurarization. At the end of observation period sedation was withdrawn and the patient successfully extubated. Post-operative intravenous analgesia was provided with morphine 0.1 mg/kg and ketorolac 0.5 mg/kg. Several hours later the patient was discharged to the ward. Case report 2.
The patient was under treatment with pyridostigmine for myasthenia gravis stage 2a in the OssermanGenkins classification scale10 and had multiple comorbidities including hypertension Hashimotos thyroiditis gastric carcinoid insulinoma cerebrovascular ischemic disease and sick sinus syndrome treated with pacemaker. In the days before the procedure she had a minor hemorrhagic event managed by gastrointestinal endoscopic hemostasis under conscious sedation.The patient was alert and cooperative but also showed pallor and tachypnea. Hemoglobin was 7.4 g/100 ml noninvasive blood pressure was 110/ 80 mmHg heart rate was 105 in sinus rhythm and oxygen saturation was 100% on room air. Crystalloid infusion had already been started. To minimize the risk of pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents and anticipating a complex and time-consuming procedure we decided for a RSI. Anesthesia was induced with propofol and remifentanil for hypnosis and analgesia respectively and rocuronium 1 mg/kg IBW and maintained with continuous infusion of remifentanil and propofol target Bispectral Index 4060. No supplemental doses of rocuronium were administered. Quantitative neuromuscular monitoring TOF Watch Sx was carried out as described above. Again no fade was observed before administration of NMBA.
At the end of the procedure neuromuscular transmission monitor showed a count of 1/4 at TOF stimulation. Reversal was achieved with sugammadex 4 mg/kg of ABW as recommended by European European Medicines Agency and Italian Agenzia Italiana del Farmaco Medicines Agencies if less than two responses to TOF stimulation are observed and a TOF ratio of 100% was seen in 2 min. Sedation and neuromuscular monitoring were maintained for a further 40 min to detect signs of recurarization verifying that complete neuromuscular function had been restored. Two hours later the patient was safely extubated and transferred to the ward in stable condition.For both patients informed consent for data publication was obtained before hospital discharge. Discussion. Myasthenia gravis poses objective difficulties to the anesthesiologist mostly related to the use i.e.
prolonged block. In these patients the pharmacodynamics of succinylcholine are unpredictable as the effective dose in 95% of patients ED95 is increased up to 2.6 times and such resistance can cause prolonged onset time216 which is particularly undesirable in RSI.Nondepolarizing NMBA may show a large variability in duration of neuromuscular block but it is usually much prolonged longer even with the use of small doses.3Additionally the concomitant action of anticholinesterase therapy may reduce the effect of anti. cholinesterase used for reversal increasing the risk of cholinergic crisis.14517 It is therefore important to check for the presence of fade at TOF before the administration of any neuromuscular transmission affecting drugs because the need for nondepolarizing NMBA could be even lower than expected in such patients.18Data from the literature suggest that in most myasthenic individuals 0.51  ED95 of nondepolarizing NMBAs provides adequate neuromuscular block for laryngoscopy.1419 It is therefore . safe to conclude that routine dosage should be reduced by 5075% taking into account the possibility of fade before administration of neuromuscular transmission-interfering drugs e.g.
While this strategy is supported by the literature in elective cases6792021 it appears ill suited when a rapid airway control is imperative as in both our cases. Other authors advocate dose reduction even in the RSI setting.1We activated the neuromuscular monitor TOF Watch Sx immediately before NMBA administration. Given the existing risk of pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents and the need to avoid delayed airway control we used the default settings stimulation current 50 mA gain 157 without calibration. Calibration before NMBA administration with automatic detection of supramaximal stimulus and subsequent gain optimization is strongly recommended for research purpose and there is also evidence of its relevance for clinical neuromuscular monitoring to detect very slight levels of residual paralysis.22 On the other hand the device has been reported to perform well even without calibration provided the TOF ratio reaches unity.23Calibration is fairly time consuming. The level of anesthesia must be adequately deep to avoid any spontaneous or reflex thumb movement in response to stimulation that is quite painful and up to 30 s may be required for setup.At the end of the procedure both patients were transferred to the ICU.
The second case was a high-risk patient with multiple comorbidities whose general clinical conditions required intensive treatment. Moreover the cases described a real-life setting we used an uncalibrated monitoring and we only recorded the absence of fade before NMBA administration without determining the exact initial value of TOF ratio and we decided to include a period of close observation in an intensive setting even if data on neuromuscular function were suggesting complete recovery.Onset time of nondepolarizing NMBA is ultimately a pharmacokinetic process and depends upon the speed at which molecules reach the biophas. e which in turn depends on the gradient between blood and the biophase. Our decision to administer full dose of rocuronium 11.2 mg/kg was based on these considerations as well as on published literature24 aiming at rapid airway control this important safety issue could have not been achieved with succinylcholine to which myasthenics may prove resistant.2 In both cases we decided to avoid induction without muscle relaxants partly because of the higher risks of poor tracheal intubation conditions and also especially in the second case because of the risk of adverse he.
Existing literature on the safety and effectiveness of sugammadex in individuals with myasthenia includes several case reports of elective surgeries in which the dosage of muscle relaxants was determined by neuromuscular monitoring1692021 as described above. Once a TOF ratio greater than 90% was achieved quantitative monitoring was continued so as to detect recurarization as a result of redistribution from slower compartments.In our opinion our management plan is supported by the following pharmacologic considerations 1 myasthenia gravis ultimately affects the pharmacodynamics of NMBAs. In fact a reduced number of cholinergic receptors also reduces the number of molecules needed to achieve block. Conversely pharmacokinetics are unaffected by the disease per se and 2 the onset time of nondepolarizing NMBAs is mainly determined by pharmacokinetics.In conclusion full-dose rocuronium and quantitative monitoring guided reversal with sugammadex in emergency procedures may be the combination that best reconciles the need for rapidonset neuromuscular block while allowing a fast effective and reliable reversal at the end of surgery.Finally in the event of an unanticipated difficult airway  as in .
Casarotti has received payment for lecture from Merck Sharp and Dohme Italy.Funding No specific grant was received from any funding agency in the public commercial or notfor-profit sectors. Treatment of ocular symptoms in myasthenia gravis. Minal J end. Bhanushali MD Joanne Wuu ScM Michael BenatarMBChB MS DPhilBackground The choice between acetyl-cholinesterase inhibitors AChE-Is and steroids as symptomatic therapy for ocular symptoms in myasthenia is controversial.Methods Thirty-five patients with myasthenia and ocular symptoms were evaluated by a single investigator. The ocular-quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG score was determined at each visit. The longitudinal construct validity of the ocular-QMG was assessed. Treatment epochs on AChE-I therapy alone or on steroids were defined for each patient. Changes in ocular-QMG scores between the start and end of each treatment epoch as well as the proportion of subjects achieving remission of symptoms were documented. The frequency of steroid-induced side effects was documented.Results The longitudinal construct validity was favorable and comparable to that for the total QMG score. Eight patients were treated with AChE-I therapy alone 6 were initially treated with AChE-I followed by steroids and 21 received steroids ab initio.
The mean improvement in ocular-QMG score was greater during the steroid epoch 3.6 2.4 than during the AChE-I epoch 1.1 1.9 p 0.0021. Complete resolution of ocular symptoms occurred in 29% of AChE-I treatment epochs and in 70% of steroid treatment epochs. The most common steroid-induced side effects observed were impaired glucose tolerance 67% and reduced bone mineral density 20%.Conclusion The ocular-quantitative myasthenia gravis score may be a useful tool for monitoring ocular symptom severity in myasthenia. Steroids appear to be more effective than acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. These findings warrant a more formal evaluation in a randomized controlled trial. Neurology 20087113351341. GLOSSARY end. AChE-I acetyl-cholinesterase inhibitor GMG generalized myasthenia gravis MG myasthenia gravis MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America nAChR Ab nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antibody OM ocular myasthenia O-QMG ocular-quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis RNS repetitive nerve stimulation SFEMG single-fiber EMG.The goals of treating ocular myasthenia OM are to reduce symptoms and possibly to prevent or delay the progression to generalized myasthenia gravis GMG.
There are proponents and opponents of these various forms of therapy but the studies evaluating the efficacy of these treatment options are of limited quality. There are no randomized controlled trials or data from observational studies that address the question of the efficacy of treatments of ocular symptoms.1 In the absence of evidence approaches to the treatment of ocular symptoms in myasthenia vary greatly.2-5 There is probably little disagreement that it is appropriate to initiate therapy with pyridostigmine but the magnitude of clinical benefit that might be expected and the frequency with which symptoms may resolve completely are unknown. ThereAddress correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Michael Benatar Emory University Department of Neurology 101 Woodruff Circle Atlanta GA 30322 michael.benataremory.eduFrom the Department of Neurology M.J.B. M.B. and Neurostatistics Section J.W. Department of Neurology Emory University Atlanta GA. Disclosure The authors report no disclosures.Copyright  2008 by AAN Enterprises Inc. 1335is much more controversy surrounding the use of steroids.
Arguments against the use of steroids are mainly based on their adverse side effect profile and the claim that relapse of ocular symptoms is common as steroids are tapered.4There are no stand-alone tools for evaluation of ocular symptoms in myasthenia. However because 3 of the 13 items of the quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG scale a validated objective measure of disease severity10-16 that has been used in several randomized controlled trials121317 focus on ocular pathology we have selected these items to form an ocular-QMG subscore which we have used to track patients response to treatment. Here we present data to support the longitudinal construct validity of the ocularQMG and also report our experience with the ocular-QMG score in 35 patients with MG who were followed by a single physician in a neuromuscular clinic at Emory University.METHODS Ocular component of the quantitative myasthenia gravis score. The ocular-QMG score includes three items each performed in a timed fashion. For levator function the presence of ptosis in the primary position score 3 within 1 to 10 seconds score 2 within 11 to 60 seconds score 1 or 60 seconds score 0 is determined.
Finally the strength of orbicularis oculi is graded as incomplete eye closure score 3 complete closure but without resistance score 2 complete closure against resistance but weak score 1 or normal score 0.Study subjects. Subjects were retrospectively identified from an electronic database maintained in the Emory Electromyography Laboratory as well as from a list of patients with myasthenia gravis MG prospectively maintained as part of an ongoing clinical trial of thymectomy in MG. We identified a consecutive series of 83 patients with a clinical diagnosis of MG supported by at least one laboratory test elevated acetylcholine receptor antibodies abnormal Tensilon test 10% decrement on repetitive nerve stimulation or concentric needle single-fiber EMG SFEMG showing increased mean jitter or elevated jitter in 10% of apparent single-fiber action potential pairs. Of these we restricted our study to the 35 subjects who were evaluated and treated by a single board-certified neurologist subspecialized in neuromuscular M.B. and had ocular-QMG scores documented at each visit.Medical records for each subject were reviewed to extract the ocular-QMG score and current medications at each visit.
We recorded the occurrence of the following adverse events in patients taking prednisone 1 weight gain 2 osteopenia or osteoporosis on bone scan 3 new onset of hypertension i.e. blood pressure 140/90 mm Hg or aggravated preexisting hypertension requiring additional antihypertensive medications and 4 new-onset impaired 2-hour glucose tolerance test or worsening of previously well-controlled diabetes. The Emory Institutional Review Board granted an exemption that allowed for review of electronic medical records.Remission of symptoms. Remission was defined by the attainment of an ocular-QMG score of zero rather than on the basis of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA postintervention status because ocular-QMG scores were documented prospectively at each clinical encounter whereas MGFA postintervention status was not.Treatment epochs. For each subject we determined whether there had been a period of time during which pyridostigmine was used without prednisone or other immunosuppressive therapy and whether there had been a period during which prednisone was used with or without pyridostigmine. Each of these periods was designated as a treatment epoch.
The duration of each treatment epoch pyridostigmine vs prednisone with or without pyridostigmine the ocular-QMG score at the beginning and end of each treatment period and the dosages of relevant medications were recorded. The beginning of a treatment epoch was defined by the time at which follow-up on the relevant medication began. The end of a pyridostigmine treatment period was defined by the remission of symptoms the discontinuation of pyridostigmine the addition of prednisone to the treatment regimen or the end of follow-up. The end of a steroid treatment period was defined by remission of symptoms discontinuation of prednisone or end of follow-up.Because the therapeutic strategy of the treating neurologist involved the initial use of pyridostigmine followed by steroids if required by symptoms and then a steroid taper once remission was achieved we considered only periods of treatment with pyridostigmine that preceded periods of treatment with steroids. The analytic approach that we have used focuses on treatment epochs rather than patient treatment groups for several reasons. Some patients contributed an epoch of treatment on both pyridostigmine alone and then on prednisone.
This is because as a tertiary referral center we frequently see patients who have failed a trial of pyridostigmine and hence initial longitudinal follow-up on pyridostigmine is not available.Statistical analysis. The longitudinal construct validity of the ocular-QMG reflects the extent to which the ocular-QMG correlates with disease severity which in the absence of any other measurement was determined by the patients overall impression of their condition. For the ocular-QMG we believe that an increase in score should reflect a deterioration in the patients1336 Neurology 71 October 21 2008condition a decrease should reflects an improvement and the score should remain unchanged among those who subjectively report no change. Estimation of the ocular-QMG longitudinal construct validity was based on all follow-up visits in the study. At each visit patients reported their subjective impression of symptom control compared with the previous visit improved no change or worsened. The generalized estimating equation method for ordinal outcome was used to model the probability of a transition from a lower state to a higher state i.e. worsened to no change/improved or worsened/no change to improved as a function of the change in ocular-QMG score between visits.
n prednisone. The demographic and clinical characteristics of these three groups were compared using the KruskalWallis test or Fisher exact test. For the analyses comparing the response to pyridostigmine with the response to prednisone participants who contributed an epoch of time on each treatment were included in both treatment groups. Although a matched analysis comparing each patients two treatment epochs would have been more ideal given the small number of patients n 6 for whom data on both epochs were available we opted for an unmatched analysis comparing treatment epochs rather than participants. The Wilcoxon rank sum test and Fisher exact test were used for the comparison of ocular-QMG scores and remission rates regression analyses were performed as needed to adjust for follow-up duration. We also examined time to remission by survival analysis. The level of statistical significance was set at 0.05 two-sided.RESULTS Study population. The cohort included 35 patients with MG 16 with OM and 19 with generalized disease. There were 19 men 54% and 16 women 46% the mean age at the time of diagnosis was 52  16.9 years. Acetylcholine receptor antibody titers were elevated in 20 patients 59% 40% of OM pa-tients and 74% of GMG patients.
Thymectomy was performed in 4 subjects 13%. As required by inclusion criteria at least one of these tests was abnormal in every subject.Eight patients were treated with pyridostigmine alone group A 6 patients were treated first with pyridostigmine and then with prednisone group B and 21 were treated with prednisone with or without concurrent pyridostigmine since the beginning of their follow-up at Emory group C figure. Purely ocular disease accounted for a larger proportion of subjects treated with pyridostigmine alone compared with those treated with prednisone as might be expected given the greater severity of disease in those with GMG. There were no other significant demographic or clinical differences among these three groups table 1. The 35 participants contributed 14 epochs of treatment with pyridostigmine and 27 epochs of treatment with prednisone figure and table 2.Ocular-QMG scores.
Median dosages of pyridostigmine and prednisone were 292 and 20 mg per day respectively. Mean ocular-QMG scores at the end of the pyridostigmine and prednisone treatment periods were 3.1  2.6 and 0.9  1.6 respectively. Over the course of the follow-up the ocular-QMG score improved by a mean of 1.1  1.9 and 3.6  2.4 in the pyridostigmine and prednisone groups respectively table 3 p 0.0021. Results remained essentially unchanged after adjusting for the duration of follow-up.Remission of ocular symptoms. The frequency of complete resolution of ocular symptoms and signs ocular-QMG score of zero was assessed after 2 months of treatment to reflect short-term efficacy and at the end of follow-up. No differences were noted in the frequency of remission within 2 months but overall remission was achieved in 4 pyridostigmine epochs 29% and in 19 prednisone epochs 70% p 0.019 table 3.
21 2008 1337yield a reliable estimate of time to remission for the pyridostigmine treatment group. Instead we present the raw data in table 2.Ocular myasthenia subgroup. Among the 16 subjects with OM 13 contributed an epoch of time on pyridostigmine alone and 8 contributed an epoch of time on prednisone. Initial ocular-QMG scores were comparable 4.1  2.1 and 5.5  1.8 in the pyridostigmine and steroid groups respectively. OcularQMG scores at the end of the treatment period however were markedly better in the steroid-treated subjects with a change in ocular-QMG score of 4.9  2.2 points as compared with an average change of 1.2  1.9 points in the pyridostigmine group p 0.0038. Remission of ocular symptoms occurred in 4 pyridostigmine epochs 31% and 6 prednisone epochs 75%. Median dosages of pyridostigmine and prednisone were 300 and 16 mg/d respectively.Relapse of symptoms. Of the 19 patients whose ocular symptoms remitted while they were taking prednisone 8 42% relapsed during prednisone dose tapering. The median dose of prednisone at the time of relapse was 6.5 mg/d.Progression of ocular to generalized MG. Only one patient who presented initially with OM progressed to GMG and was included in the generalized group for statistical analysis.
His ocular symptoms responded initially to prednisone but while the dose was being tapered he developed dysarthria dysphagia generalized fatigue worsened ptosis and diplopia. These symptomsemerged 18 months after the onset of ocular symptoms. He was restarted on prednisone 60 mg/d and twiceweekly plasmapheresis he has by approximately 3 months achieved minimal manifestation status on the combination of prednisone and methotrexate.Adverse events. Among the 27 subjects treated with steroids adverse event data were available for a subset of patients 2-hour glucose tolerance tests n 15 monitoring of blood pressure n 14 dual energy x-ray absorptiometry bone density scans n 10 and monitoring for weight gain n 19. New-onset glucose intolerance or worsening of diabetes occurred in 10 of 15 67% new-onset or worsening hypertension developed in 3 of 14 21% and new-onset or worsening osteoporosis was detected in 2 of 10 20% in spite of calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Weight gain was noted in 8 of 19 subjects 42% with a mean increase of 6.0  5.3 lb. Weight gain greater than 5 lb was noted in only 2 subjects.DISCUSSION Controversy surrounds the optimal treatment of OM and ocular symptoms in GMG.
The purpose of this retrospective cohort study was to provide some data to address this question.To study the symptomatic effects of pyridostigmine and prednisone it was necessary to develop tools for quantifying the severity of ocular symptoms and signs. We used the ocular components of the QMG score a validated instrument previously used in several clinical trials. We found the ocular-QMG score to possess performance characteristics that are comparable to those of the total QMG.16Group A started and stayed on pyridostigmine only. Group B started on pyridostigmine and then switched to prednisone with or without continued pyridostigmine. Group C started on prednisone with or without pyridostigmine. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antibody nAChR Ab data not available for one group B patient. Thymectomy data not available for one group B and three group C patients. KruskalWallis test. Fisher exact test. Total total number of patients for which the test/procedure was ordered. MG myasthenia gravis OM ocular myasthenia RNS repetitive nerve stimulation SFEMG single-fiber EMG.
We acknowledge that the duration of treatment with pyridostigmine alone was generally shorter than duration of therapy with prednisone. This is a reflection of the general strategy used to treat these patients initiating therapy with pyridostigmine alone and adding prednisone once maximally tolerated dosages of pyridostigmine fail to adequately improve symptoms. Treatment with pyri-Group A started and stayed on pyridostigmine only. Group B started on pyridostigmine and then switched to prednisone with or without continued pyridostigmine. Group C started on prednisone with or without pyridostigmine. MG myasthenia gravis O-QMG ocular-quantitative myasthenia gravis OM ocular myasthenia GMG generalized myasthenia gravis.Neurology 71 October 21 2008 1339dostigmine induced remission in 29% of the entire cohort 31% of the subgroup with isolated ocular disease. Prednisone by contrast led to remission in 70% of patients 75% in the subgroup with OM. These benefits were accomplished with moderate dosages of prednisone median 20 mg/d in the entire cohort and 16 mg/d in the subgroup with OM. The benefits of steroid therapy however despite the relatively low dose were accompanied by significant risk.
The reasons for incomplete data were the lack of a formal protocol for adverse effect screening and that monitoring for side effects was often performed by the patients primary care physician.The strengths of this study include its cohort design with a control group pyridostigmine the use of an objective measure of ocular function that is derived from a validated outcome measure and the formal documentation of the ocular-QMG data by a single investigator. Weaknesses include the retrospective chart-review nature of this study the nonrandomized allocation of treatment the relatively small sample size and the performance of the ocularQMG by an investigator unblinded to treatment assignment. Furthermore we lack longitudinal data during prior treatment with pyridostigmine alone in most of the subjects who were treated with prednisone because they were referred to our clinic for management only after failing an adequate trial of pyridostigmine. This might have introduced a bias both against the efficacy of pyridostigmine and against the efficacy of prednisone. Because patients who responded well to pyridostigmine might not be referred to a tertiary center we may have underestimated the proportion of subjects who respond topyridostigmine.
The retrospective nature of this study precludes reliable estimation of the extent of these two competing biases. Nevertheless these data represent the only published comparative data on the symptomatic benefits of pyridostigmine and prednisone.Several inferences may be drawn from the results of this study. First pyridostigmine offers modest symptomatic benefit in patients with OM and in those with GMG who have ocular symptoms. Remission rates however are modest 25%30%. Because the frequency of serious adverse events due to pyridostigmine is expected to be low this is an appropriate first-line approach to therapy. Second prednisone is more effective than pyridostigmine. Third steroids in moderate dosages for the treatment of ocular symptoms in myasthenia are as expected associated with a reasonably high frequency of adverse events. Patients should be informed of them and appropriate measures taken to mitigate these risks. These data provide a strong a priori justification for proposing a prospective randomized double-blind controlled trial to better delineate the risks and benefits of steroid use in patients with MG. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS. Statistical analysis was performed by M.B. and J.W.Received April 24 2008. Accepted in final form July 15 2008.
Objective A retrospective observational cohort study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV myasthenia gravis MG patients. Patients and methods MG patients admitted to the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine between June 2011 and January 2017 with grade III and grade IV according to the modified Osserman scale were recruited and received a telephone follow-up in September 2017. Patients treated with tacrolimus plus prednisone were compared with those treated without tacrolimus. The efficacy of tacrolimus was assessed using MG-activities of daily living MG-ADL score Osserman classification Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA post intervention status PIS the number of hospitalizations the number of myasthenic crises and deaths. The adverse drug effects of tacrolimus were monitored. Results A total of 124 patients were included. The tacrolimus group had a significantly lower MG-ADL score than the control group at follow-up 1.90  2.27vs 2.97  2.78 p  0.029. The difference of MG-ADL score between baseline and after follow-up was significantly greater in the tacrolimus group than the control group -7.20  2.95 vs -5.52  2.91 p 0.003.
The Osserman classification MGFA PIS the number of myasthenic crises and deaths did not differ significantly between the two groups. Nineteen patients in the tacrolimus group had adverse drug reactions but no severe adverse effects appeared. Conclusion Our study suggested that tacrolimus could be an effective and safe treatment for Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV MG patients. Contents lists available at ScienceDirectClinical Neurology and Neurosurgeryjournal homepage www.elsevier.com/locate/clineuroEfficacy and safety of tacrolimus in Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV Myasthenia GravisLi-Na Zhaoa1 Yi Liangb1 Xue-Jun Fangb Xiao-Man Liub Qi-Long Jianga Shuang-Shuang Wanga Shi-Feng Shea Min Caoba Department of Spleen-Stomach The First Affiliated Hospital Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine Guangzhou 510405 China bGuangzhou University of Chinese Medicine Guan. gzhou 510405 ChinaA R T I C L E I N F OKeywords Myasthenia Gravis Tacrolimus Immunosuppressive agents Drug-related side effect and adverse reactionsA B S T R A C TObjective A retrospective observational cohort study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV myasthenia gravis MG patients.
Patients treated with tacrolimus plus prednisone were compared with those treated without tacrolimus. The efficacy of tacrolimus was assessed using MG-activities of daily living MG-ADL score Osserman classification Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA post intervention status PIS the number of hospitalizations the number of myasthenic crises and deaths. The adverse drug effects of tacrolimus were monitored. Results A total of 124 patients were included. The tacrolimus group had a significantly lower MG-ADL score than the control group at follow-up 1.90  2.27vs 2.97  2.78 p  0.029. The difference of MG-ADL score between baseline and after follow-up was significantly greater in the tacrolimus group than the control group -7.20  2.95 vs -5.52  2.91 p 0.003. Fewer patients were hospitalized in the tacrolimus group p 0.011. The Osserman classification MGFA PIS the number of myasthenic crises and deaths did not differ significantly between the two groups. Nineteen patients in the tacrolimus group had adverse drug reactions but no severe adverse effects appeared. Conclusion Our study suggested that tacrolimus could be an effective and safe treatment for Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV MG patients. 1 end. Introduction.
A rare portion of MG cases is mediated with muscle specific kinase MUSK antibodies low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 4 LPR4 antibodies and agrin antibodies. Titin and ryanodine receptor antibodies could be detected with a high frequency in thymoma-associated MG 23. The production of AChR antibodies in B cell depends on AChR specific T cells and T-cell proliferation and activation induced by interleukin-2 IL-2 particularly in severe cases of MG 45. The symptoms of MG are fluctuating and include easy fatigability ptosis diplopia weakness of limbs dysphagia and so on 6.But for some cases especially for Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV MG they may rapidly deteriorate and even experience myasthenic crisis which can cause respiratory failure and even death 78. Thus their treatment remains a big challenge.The main treatment for MG includes acetycholinesterase inhibitors thymectomy corticosteroids non-steroidal immunosuppressive agents and potential immunotherapies. Acetycholinesterase inhibitors are the first-line drugs for MG but they are only symptomatic treatment and could not induce remission 9.
Whats more approximately 520% of MG patients have a poor therapeutic response to corticosteroids particularly MUSK-MG patientshttps//doi.org/10.1016/j.clineuro.2018.07.023 Received 14 May 2018 Received in revised form 17 July 2018 Accepted 29 July 2018 Corresponding author at Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine 16 Ji Chang road Guangzhou 510405 China. 1 Contributed equally. E-mail address 642824121qq.com M. Cao.Clinical Neurology and Neurosurgery 173 2018 7076Available online 30 July 2018 0303-8467/  2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.T1012. Nowadays non-steroidal immunosuppressive agents such as azathioprine cyclophosphamide cyclosporine and tacrolimus are available for the treatment of MG. Azathioprine is the first-line immunosuppressant for MG. But its initial improvement is usually seen in 310 months after administration while the peak effect will reach 12 years 7 which with such a relatively long onset time makes it less favorable for severe MG patients with significant weakness 13. As for cyclophosphamide and cyclosporine potential serious side effects limit their use in treatment of MG.
Therefore an immunosuppressive agent with a quick onset and less serious side effects is needed for treating MG especially for those Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV MG.Tacrolimus a calcineurin inhibitor usually used for preventing rejection after organ transplantation has been administered to treat MG 16. As a non-steroidal immunosuppressive agent tacrolimus suppresses antigen-simulated interleukin-2 IL-2 production by T-cells and IL-2 receptor expression on T cell and reduces T-cell proliferation 11720. In addition tacrolimus can improve excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle by enhancing ryanodine receptor related sarcoplasmic calcium release 132122. Tacrolimus with a rapid onset around 2 weeks after administration has been suggested to have corticosteroids sparing effect in treatment of MG 2326. Recently several studies showed that tacrolimus could be effective and well tolerated as an immunosuppressive agent in MG patients 192728. However to our knowledge MG patients enrolled in these studies most were classified as Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA class I MGFA Class II or Osserman grade I and Osserman grade II.
2 end. Material and methods. end. 2.1 end. Patients end. MG patients admitted to the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine between June 2011 and January 2017 aged between 18 and 70 with grade III and grade IV according to the modified Osserman scale were recruited and received a telephone follow-up in September 2017. Our department is a well-known tertiary referral center for MG. Patients clinical and laboratory data were collected retrospectively. Diagnosis of MG was based on their history clinical symptoms positive outcomes of pharmacological and electrophysiological tests and antibody tests 7. Diagnosis of MG was confirmed by assessing serum AChR-Ab titers in most cases. Patients with elevated levels of liver enzymes renal insufficiency impaired glucose tolerance malignant tumor severe infection patients undergoing thymectomy within one year pregnant and lactating women at baseline were excluded. All subjects were contacted and received information about the aim of this study and written consents were obtained. This study was approved by the ethics committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine. 2.2 end. Treatment. Patients were divided into two groups.
Tacrolimus was administered orally at a daily dose of 2mg and adjusted according to physicians judgment based on patients condition. Prednisone was orally administered at an initial dose of 515mg and gradually increased to 4060mg per day as the maximum maintaining dose if needed. After the clinical symptomsimproved the dose of prednisone was tapered gradually. Pyridostigmine was permitted within the dosage of 360mg per day if required. Cyclosporine was taken 50100mg daily and adjusted according to the blood level of cyclosporine. Azathioprine was administered 50100mg daily initially and increased every 2 weeks up to 23mg/kg/day according to patients tolerance toward azathioprine. 2.3 end. Clinical evaluation. Clinical classification was performed according to the modified Osserman scale 29. Disease severity was graded according to the MGactivities of daily living MG-ADL score 30. Clinical classification and MG-ADL score were compared between the two groups at baseline and after follow-up. Differences of MG-ADL score between baseline and after follow-up were calculated. The number of hospital admissions related to MG episodes of myasthenic crisis and the number of deaths were recorded.
The MG-ADL score Osserman scale and Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA post intervention status PIS at follow-up were obtained mostly by clinic visits and supplemented by telephone calls. The number of hospitalization the episodes of myasthenia crisis the number of death were collected by reviewing the clinical charts of patients and telephone calls. The physicians who participated in clinic visits and making phone calls were not aware of the patients treatment status. 2.4 end. Safety evaluation. To assess safety unfavorable events occurring after the administration of tacrolimus were collected by reviewing the clinic records of patients and telephone calls. 2.5 end. Statistical analysis. The statistical analyses were performed using SPSS version 19.0 for Windows. Continuous data were analyzed by t-test or Mann-Whitney U test depending on the data distribution. Categorical data were estimated by Chi-square test or Mann-Whitney U test. Two-way analysis of variance two-way ANOVA was applied to examine the interaction effects of treatment groups and thymectomy history using the difference of MG-ADL score between baseline and after follow-up the MGADL score after follow-up and the number of hospital admissions as dependent variables.
All the tests were two-tailed. A p value<0.05 was considered to be statistically significant. The number of adverse drug reactions and the number of the affected patients were described. 3 end. Results end. end. 3.1 end. Clinical features of MG patients at baseline. One hundred and thirty-two patients were enrolled in this study. Two patients were excluded from the study due to their short treatment periods less than 2 months. Six patients were lost during the follow-up and excluded because of insufficient clinical data. The final analysis was performed for a total of 124 patients 55 in the tacrolimus group and 69 in the control group. In the tacrolimus group 28 patients chose tacrolimus plus prednisone treatment due to insufficient response that patients relapsed after a stable condition or their symptoms could not be relieved after a sufficient dose and time of medications to their previous treatments and 19 patients chose tacrolimus plus prednisone treatment due to intolerable side effects associated with their previoustreatments.
Tacrolimus plus prednisone was used as first immunosuppressive treatment in eight patients because they had an acute onset of MG and their diseases progressed rapidly.The clinical features of MG patients at baseline are shown in Table 1 The mean age of patients was 43.56  13.92 years in the tacrolimus group and 43.54  14.34 years in the control group. There were 25 Osserman grade III MG patients and 30 Osserman grade IV MG patients in the tacrolimus group. The control group included 28 Osserman grade III MG patients and 41 Osserman grade IV MG patients. The MG-ADL score at baseline was 9.11  2.12 in the tacrolimus group and 8.49  1.54 in the control group. In the tacrolimus group forty-six patients were positive for AChR-Ab and nine patients were negative for AChR-Ab. In the control group sixty-two patients were positive for AChR-Ab and seven patients were negative for AChR-Ab. Patients who underwent thymectomy before enrollment were positive for AChR-Ab in both groups. There were no significantly between-group differences in the characteristics at baseline except for thymectomy. The number of MG patients who underwent thymectomy was significantly higher in the tacrolimus group compared to the control group. 3.2 end. Efficacy end. 3.2.1 end.
The MG-ADL score of patients treated with tacrolimus plus prednisone at baseline was 9.11  2.12 and the control group was 8.49  1.54 showing no significant difference between the two groups p 0.135. After the follow-up MG-ADL score of the tacrolimus group was significantlylower 1.90 2.27 than that of the control group 2.97 2.78 p 0.029. The difference of MG-ADL score between baseline and after follow-up was significantly greater in the tacrolimus group than the control group p 0.003.After the follow-up thirteen patients were graded as Osserman grade I nine as grade II a four as grade II b two as grade III and twenty-three as remission in the tacrolimus group. In the control group twenty-three patients were graded as Osserman grade I seven as grade II a eight as grade II b five as grade III and twenty-one as remission. Mann-Whitney U test revealed no significant difference in Osserman classification between the two groups p 0.194. In the tacrolimus group six patients achieved complete stable remission CSR seventeen patients reached pharmacologic remission PR thirteen patients stayed minimal manifestation MM thirteen patients improvedI two patients stayed unchangedU and four patients died of MG D of MG according to MGFA PIS.
Mann-Whitney U test revealed no significant difference in Osserman classification between the two groups p 0.123. 3.2.2 end. Hospitalization myasthenic crisis and death. During the follow-up fewer patients were hospitalized for exacerbation of MG in the tacrolimus group than the control group p 0.011 Table2. In the tacrolimus group the reasons for hospital admissions included pulmonary infections urinary tract infection herpes zoster aspirations and exacerbated symptoms due to colds diarrheas menstruations pregnancies childbirths and dose reduction of prednisolone. The reasons for hospitalizations in the control group were similar to that in the tacrolimus group except no patient was admitted with herpes zoster. Fifty-five myasthenic crises occurred during hospitalization and 25 ventilations were recorded in the tacrolimus group. Sixty-nine myasthenic crises occurred during hospitalization and 33 ventilations were recorded in the control group.
However the difference did not reach statistical significance. Four patients died in each group because of deterioration of MG. A Chi-square test detected no significant difference in the number of deaths between the two groups. In the tacrolimus group one patient died of septic shock and three patients died of respiratory failure due to myasthenic crisis. In the control group four patients treated with prednisolone alone were dead and two of them died of septic shock and two of them died of respiratory failure due to myasthenic crisis. 3.2.3 end. Two-way ANOVA. Because there was a significant difference of thymectomy history between the two groups two-way ANOVA was conducted to examine the influence of thymectomy history presence of thymectomy and absence of thymectomy on the difference of MG-ADL score between baseline and after follow-up the MG-ADL score after follow-up and the number of hospital admissions between the two groups. Table 3 presents the results of two-way ANOVA evaluating the interaction effect of treatment groups and thymectomy history.
The main effect of thymectomy history was insignificant p 0.343 revealing an insignificant difference between presence of thymectomy and absence of thymectomy. The interaction effect of treatment groups and thymectomy history on the difference of MG-ADL score was not significant p 0.862.Regarding the MG-ADL score after follow-up the main effect oftreatment groups was also significant p 0.016 and the main effect of thymectomy history was insignificant p 0.757. The interaction effect of treatment groups and thymectomy history on the MG-ADL score after follow-up was significant p 0.023. In our direct comparison of tacrolimus group and control group among the patients without thymectomy history the MG-ADL score after follow-up were 1.200.65 and 3.570.43 p 0.003 indicating a significantly lower MG-ADL score in tacrolimus group compared with control group among patients without thymectomy history. However there was no significant difference in the MG-ADL score after follow-up between tacrolimus group and control group among patients with thymectomy history p 0.908.Regarding the number of hospital admissions the main effect of treatment groups was significant p 0.012. The main effect of thymectomy history was insignificant p 0.757.
3.2.4 end. Subgroup analyses. In order to explore the potential variables that might influence the difference of MG-ADL score we conducted exploratory subgroup analyses using gender age age at MG onset disease duration presence or absence of thymectomy presence or absence of myasthenic crisis history Osserman classification positive or negative for anti-AChR antibodies at baseline as variables and the results were shown in Table5. Statistically significant difference in MG-ADL reduction could not be observed in male patients patients aged above 45 years old disease duration above 48 months patients without thymectomy patients without myasthenic crisis history and patients negative for AChR-Ab.Because the control group included three different treatments oneway ANOVA and the non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis test were added to further explore the efficacy of tacrolimus. One-way ANOVA showed significant difference between the four difference treatment groups p  0.007 in the difference of MG-ADL score and post-hoc test revealed that the difference of MG-ADL score was significantly greater in theAll data are mean  SD.tacrolimus group than the azathioprine group -7.20  2.95 vs -4.36  3.75 p<0.05.
The results were shown in Table6. The non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis test followed by the Dunns post-test showed significant difference in the prednisolone dose at baseline between the four difference treatment groups p<0.001 and the prednisolone dose of the prednisolone alone group was significantly higher than the other groups p<0.05. At follow up the prednisolone dose of the tacrolimus group was significantly lower than the group using prednisolone alone and the group using prednisolone plus azathioprine. The results were shown in Table 6. 3.3 end. Safety end. Nineteen patients 34.55% in the tacrolimus group had adverse drug reactions during the follow-up but no severe adverse effects happened. The adverse drug reactions related to tacrolimus administration including respiratory tract infections urinary tract infections herpes zoster skin rashes itchy skin hair loss increased blood glucose level and high blood pressure were shown in Table 7. All adverse drug reactions were resolved with treatments or dose reduction of tacrolimus.By reviewing the clinical charts and laboratory examinations of the patients in the tacrolimus group 33 patients data were collected and the mean serum tacrolimus concentration level was 4.48  3.32 ng/ml range1.0212.73 ng/ml.
The mean tacrolimus concentration in our study was within this range 1619243133. 4 end. Discussion. MG is an autoimmune disease targeting the neuromuscular junction. Both Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV MG patients have severe muscle weakness. Therefore they urgently need an effective and fast onset medicine to control the disease before further exacerbation. The treatment of MG is aimed to eliminate the autoimmune response and provide long-term remission. However the response to conventional immunosuppressive agents such as prednisone azathioprine cyclosporine and cyclophosphamide is not uniform. A proportion of patients may have a poor response to conventional immunosuppressive agents or develop intolerable side effects that contraindicate their use. More and more clinical studies showed that tacrolimus is an effective and safe therapy for MG patients even the patients with refractory MG 19202324272834. Our study provides evidence supporting that treatment of tacrolimus plus prednisone was associated with a more favorable outcome than the control group treated without tacrolimus in Osserman grade III and IV MG patients.
Additionally hospital admissions for exacerbation of MG were fewer in the tacrolimus group than the control group.In this study both groups of patients were matched for gender age disease duration and severity except for the thymectomy history. Therefore two-way ANOVA was conducted to assess the main effect and interaction of treatment groups and thymectomy history. Two-way ANOVA showed that the thymectomy history did not affect the reduction of MG-ADL score and the number of hospital admissions in both groups. However we found a statistically significant interaction between treatment groups and thymectomy history on the MG-ADL score after follow-up. Further analyses demonstrated that patients who did not receive thymectomy had a significantly lower MG-ADL score in the tacrolimus group than the control group after follow-up. Among patients with thymectomy history the MG-ADL score of the tacrolimus group was also lower than the control group but the difference did not reach statistical significance. One reason might be that patients who received both thymectomy and tacrolimus treatment usually were associated with more severe clinical symptoms and had a relatively high MG-ADL score at baseline.
Therefore patients treated with tacrolimus more likely had severe or refractory symptoms than those with traditional immunosuppressive agents. Additionally Ponseti and colleagues reported that post-thymectomy administration of tacrolimus combined with prednisone was more effective than prednisone alone for the consolidation of complete stable remission in a shorter period of time in MG patients which proved the ability of tacrolimus in improving clinical symptoms of thymectomized MG patients 36. The other reason is that patients who underwent thymectomy had a significantly lowerMG-ADL score than patients without thymectomy in the control group. Consistent with an international randomized trial conducted by Wolfe and colleagues showed that patients who underwent thymectomy combined with prednisone had a lower quantitative myasthenia gravis score over a 3-year period than those who received prednisone alone 37. In summary although there were more patients underwent thymectomy in the tacrolimus group the two-way ANOVA still showed patients treated with tacrolimus had more favorable outcomes in improving MG-ADL score and reducing the number of hospital admission.Tacrolimus treatment showed the positive effect of improving MGADL score in MG patients.
The MGADL scale includes ten items such as talking breathing limb strength and so on. This scale which takes less than ten minutes to complete without requiring any test equipment is practical and suitable for our retrospective study. Yoshikawa and colleagues conducted a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study on 80MG patients and reported that the MG-ADL score at the final observation in the tacrolimus group was lower than that in the placebo group p 0.054 19. Furukawa and colleagues retrospectively studied 86MG patients in 36 months and reported that the MG-ADL score of the tacrolimus group was lower than that in the group used prednisone alone but the difference did not reach statistical significance 20. Two clinical studies of 20 refractory MG patients including 13 children demonstrated that the MG-ADL score at final observation decreased significantly than that at baseline after administration of tacrolimus 2338. Compared with those studies we enrolled 132 Osserman grade III or Osserman grade IV MG patients and 124 of them completed our study which is a relatively large number of patients compared to previous studies.
Our studies also showed low-dose 2 mg/d of tacrolimus with a more favorable improvement of MG-ADL score than the control group prednisone alone or prednisone plus azathioprine or prednisone plus cyclosporine in Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV MG patients in China.The subgroup analysis of the four different treatment groups showed significant difference between the tacrolimus group and the azathioprine group in the difference of MG-ADL score and the number of hospitalizations. Although the comparisons between the tacrolimus group and the other groups did not show significant difference the tacrolimus group still was associated with a more favorable outcome than the other groups. The exploratory subgroup analyses using gender age age at MG onset disease duration presence or absence of thymectomy presence or absence of myasthenic crisis history Osserman classification positive or negative for anti-AChR antibodies at baseline as variables might indicate that younger female MG patients with shorter disease duration had better response to tacrolimus.
Twenty mild adverse drug reactions including infections increased blood glucose level and high blood pressure were reported and could be resolved by appropriate management or lowing the dose of tacrolimus in our study. There were no severe adverse events associated with tacrolimus treatment in this study. Other side effects of tacrolimus in MG patients have been reported in previous studies such as leukocytopenia muscle spasms pyelonephritis decreased creatinine clearance increased aminotransferases gastrointestinal symptoms and could also be resolved by appropriate treatments reduction or discontinuation of tacrolimus which is consistent with our study 1920244043. Therefore tacrolimus showed tolerable safety profiles as an immunosuppressive agent in MG patients.Most MG patients enrolled in this study were positive for AChR-Ab. However there were small portion of patients remained seronegative due to limitation of autoantibodies tests. Previous studies showed that about 85% of MG patients have AChR-Ab but no correlation has been shown between AChR antibody concentration and disease severity 24446. MuSK antibodies are detected in 3040% generalized MG patients without AChR-Ab 1347.
Although the proportion of patients with AChR-Ab positive at baseline between the two groups was insignificant difference further studies were needed to investigate the influence of serum AChR-Ab negative on the efficacy of tacrolimus.There are several limitations of our study. Because of the retrospective nature of data collection there are potentially significant biases and confounding factors that we could not control which leaded to the incomplete matched clinical background for the two study groups. Furthermore lack of serum tacrolimus concentration levels limited our further study on the therapeutic concentration of tacrolimus in treating MG patients. Additionally follow-up information was acquired through a telephone call and was self-reported by patients which introduces the possibility of recall bias. And although the information was able to be verified if the patient followed up within our hospital health care system there was no attempt made to verify subjects answers as correct or erroneous if the patient followed up outside of our hospital health care system. Last but not least because MG is a rare disease and has a low incidence rate the number of patients in our study remains relatively small.
5 end. Conclusions. In conclusion the results of our study have shown that tacrolimus is effective in improving clinical outcomes and reducing the number of hospitalizations and is well tolerated in Osserman grade III and IV MG patients.Competing interestsThe authors declare that they have no competing interests.FundingThis study was supported by a grant for high-level university construction projects from Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine Grand number 018A1AFD018171Z11073.Authors contributionLNZ and YL desi. gned the study YL and XJF performed the collection and the follow-up XML and QLJ analysed the data SSW and SFS carried out the search and the literature analysis LNZ and MC prepared the manuscript. All the authors read and approved the final manuscript.Ethics approval and consent to participateThis study was approved by the ethics committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine. All subjects were contacted and received information about the aim of this study and written consents were obtained. Acknowledgement. This study was supported by a grant for high-level university construction projects from Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine.
Objective To elucidate the long-term therapeutic efficacy and safety of low-dose FK506 tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. Patients and methods We treated nine patients with MG all women age range 3583years mean 51.1years MGFA classification 4 type IIa 4 type IIb and 1 type IVb patients with FK506 for more than 24months observation period 2446months. All the patients had undergone extended thymectomy before FK506 treatment two patients 22.2% had noninvasive thymoma and six 66.7% had thymic hyperplasia. We evaluated total Quantitative MG Q-MG score anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibody titer in the blood interleukin 2 IL-2 production in peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs administration dosage of prednisolone PSL and adverse effects of FK506. Results A reduction in steroid dosage of 50% without worsening of the symptoms was observed 1year after FK506 administration in three out of six steroid-dependent MG patients 50.0%. The total Q-MG scores range 039 points at 6months and 1year after FK506 administration improved by 3 points or more in six 66.7% and seven 77.8% out of nine patients respectively. The efficacy of FK506 was maintained for more than 2years. Although adverse effects were observed in three patients 33.3% these were not serious.
D 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Objective To elucidate the long-term therapeutic efficacy and safety of low-dose FK506 tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. Patients and methods We treated nine patients with MG all women age range 3583years mean 51.1years MGFA classification 4 type IIa 4 type IIb and 1 type IVb patients with FK506 for more than 24months observation period 2446months. All the patients had undergone extended thymectomy before FK506 treatment two patients 22.2% had noninvasive thymoma and six 66.7% had thymic hyperplasia. We evaluated total Quantitative MG Q-MG score anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibody titer in the blood interleukin 2 IL-2 production in peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs administration dosage of prednisolone PSL and adverse effects of FK506. Results A reduction in steroid dosage of 50% without worsening of the symptoms was observed 1year after FK506 administration in three out of six steroid-dependent MG patients 50.0%. The total Q-MG scores range 039 points at 6months and 1year after FK506 administration improved by 3 points or more in six 66.7% and seven 77.8% out of nine patients respectively. The efficacy of FK506 was maintained for more than 2years.
Conclusions Our study indicates that low-dose FK506 treatment may be efficacious not only in controlling intractable myasthenic symptoms but also in reducing steroid dosage and that FK506 is safe as an adjunctive drug to PSL for MG treatment for a maximum of 3years. D 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Tacrolimus hydrate FK506 Myasthenia gravis Treatment Adverse effects. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease usually mediated by anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies binding to postsynaptic receptors of the neuromuscular junction NMJ 1. Extended thymectomy and alternate-day administration of prednisolone PSL have0022-510X/ - see front matter D 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.jns.2006.03.010 Corresponding author. Tel. 81 25 227 0666 fax 81 25 223 6646.E-mail address nishibri.niigata-u.ac.jp M.
FK506 has been used for the suppression of immune reactions in organ transplantations 5 and for the treatmentP S L mg /d ay O u tc o m e4 w ee k sE n tr y6 m o n th s1 y ea r1 01 01 01 0U0 00 0U4 55 03 2 .52 2 .5I1 6 .31 6 .31 6 .31 6 .3I1 51 51 01 0I0 00 0I5 55 5I4 03 7 .52 7 .51 5I3 03 03 01 5I4 55 03 2 .52 2 .5I 70 00 0U  21 7 .91 8 .21 4 .61 0 .4 lo n e F  fe m al e H P h y p er p la si a U  u n ch an g ed  Iof autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis 6 and systemic lupus erythemato. sus 7 end. Yoshikawa et al. demonstrated that FK506 is effective for preventing the induction of experimental autoimmune MG in rats 8 strongly suggesting a potential role of FK506 in the treatment of MG. Recently several authors have reported that FK506 is useful and safe as an adjunctive drug to steroids for MG 913.
B as e6 m o n th s1 y ea r2 .63 .7H P5 .24 .4/ /2 42 42 47 .9< 1 .0H P3 6 4 .08 6 .0/ /8 779 .89 .4H P3 5 .58 .64 5 04 2 61 38 79 .92 5 .1H P8 .56 .91 5 22 4 61 29 81 .81 .7T h y m o m a7 3 .12 7 .15 3 9/ 94 60 .3< 1 .0F atti ss u e2 1 .21 0 .21 6 09 99 660 .2< 1 .0H P9 8 .77 4 .55 1 89 5 61 05 51 .40 .3H P0 .20 .1/ /1 09 76 .64 .8T h y m o m a1 0 3 .0/ 4 5 2/ 1 28 89 .92 5 .1T h y m o m a2 3 6 4 .07 4 .55 3 99 5 62 42 42 40 .20 .1H P  60 .20 .11 5 29 98 450 .15 .0F atti ss u e1 1 0 0 %5 7 .2 %1. 0 0 %1 2 5 %1 1 .98 .98 .7d at io n o f A m er ic a P B M C  p er ip h er al b lo o d m o n o n u cl ea r ce ll  Q -MG  q u an ti ta ti v em y as th en ia g ra v is  P S L  p re d n is op o in ts o r m o rein th e Q -MG sc o re . 2 end. Patients and methods. Nine MG patients treated with FK506 from September 2001 to September 2003 at Niigata University Hospital who were steroid-dependent or steroid-unresponsive or had worrisome complications with a high dose of steroids were enrolled in this study. Their dosage of PSL was not increased by more than 10mg/day within 4weeks before FK506 administration due to distinguish between the therapeutic effect of FK506 and that of PSL. Informed consent about using FK506 for MG treatment was obtained from all patients before starting FK506 treatment.
We investigated Quantitative MG Q-MG score range 039 points 14 anti-AChR antibody titer in the blood measured by radioimmunoassay RIA interleukin 2 IL-2 production in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs measured by solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ELISA administration dosage of PSL and adverse effects of FK506. The trough level of FK506 in the blood was also measured by solid-phase ELISA 15 5days and 2 and 4weeks after FK506 administration.Significant improvement was defined as a reduction in the Q-MG score of 3 points or more with a maintained or reduced dosage of PSL as previously reported 16.Statistical analysis was performed using the Wilcoxon signed ranks test. p-values less than 0.05 were considered significant.T ab le1 C li n ic alch ar ac te ri st icfi n d in g s o f M Gp at ieP t n o .A g e/ se xM G F A cl as si fi ca ti o nA g e at o n se t y ea rD d 1 3 5 .6 /FIV b2 3 .012 5 5 .9 /FII a2 8 .023 5 1 .9 /FII a4 2 .14 6 0 .9 /FII a3 1 .025 3 9 .5 /FII b3 7 .76 8 3 .9 /FII b8 3 .77 5 6 .0 /FII a5 5 .88 3 5 .5 /FII b3 4 .19 4 0 .4 /FII b3 3 .8M ax .8 3 .9II a4 8 3 .72M in .3 5 .5II b  42 3 .0A v e.5 1 .1IV b  14 1 .01 P t p at ie n t M G F A  M y as t. h en ia G ra v is F o u n im p ro v ed . FI m p ro v ed  w as d ef in ed as a re d u ct io n o f 3.
Results end. Nine patients with MG all were women were involved in this study. They included 4 type IIa 4 type IIb and 1 type IVb patients by MGFA classification 14. Their age range at the start of the FK506 treatment was 3583years mean age 51.1years and the observation period was 24 46months mean 34.6months. The disease duration from the onset of symptoms to FK506 administration was 0.2 29.9years mean 10.1years. None of the patients wasseronegative MG who lacked anti-AChR antibodies. All of the patients had undergone extended thymectomy before FK506 administration. Histopathological examinations revealed thymic hyperplasia in six 66.7% patients noninvasive thymoma in two 22.2% and adipose tissue proliferation in one 11.1%. The clinical characteristic findings of all the patients are summarized in Table 1.Before FK506 administration six patients 66.7% Nos. 1 35 8 and 9 were steroid-dependent who relapsed with a reduced dosage of PSL and/or suffered from adverse effects of PSL. Among them four patients 44.4% Nos. 3 4 8 and 9 were completely unresponsive to a combined therapy with oral PSL and cyclosporine. The other 3 patients 33.3% Nos.
3 8 and 9 out of six patients Nos. 1 35 8 and 9 who received oral PSL at more than 10mg/ day at 4weeks before FK506 administration a reduction in PSL dosage of 50% without worsening of the symptoms was observed 1year after FK506 administration Table 1 and Fig. 1 end. The mean dosage of PSL was reduced by 3.3mg/day at 6months mean 14.6mg/day and by 7.5mg/ day at 1year mean 10.4mg/day compared with that at 4weeks before FK506 treatment mean 17.9mg/day.The total Q-MG scores at 6months and 1year after FK506 administration improved by 3 points or more in six 66.7% Nos. 37 and 9 at 6months and seven 77.8% Nos. 39 at 1year out of nine patients respectively Table 1. There were significant differences between the total Q-MG scores at the start of FK506 administration mean 11.9 and those at 3months mean 9.3 p 0.04 6months mean 8.9 p 0.01 and 1year mean 8.7 p 0.01 after FK506 administration Fig. 2 end. Eight patients Nos. 18 were observed for more than 2years and two Nos. 1 and 2 of them for more than 3years. The efficacy demonstrated for a 1-year period was maintained during the long-term more than 2years observation. FK506 monotherapy without a high dose of steroid was also effective in two out of three patients Nos.
18 p 0.02 PBMC IL-2 production was decreased from the base to 4weeks in only one patient No. 6 end. No significant association was observed between PBMC IL-2 production and the improvement in the total Q-MG score.Although three adverse effects including an increase in hemoglobin A1C HbA1C level and a slight decrease in lymphocyte count were observed in three patients 33.3% Nos. 6 7 and 9 these adverse effects were not serious.At the dosage of 3mg/day or less the level of FK506 in the blood which is recommended to be from 10 to 20ng/ml 17 remained below 10ng/ml except for that 13.5ng/ml in one patient who was the oldest and had chronic renal dysfunction No. 6. end. 4 end. Discussion. Recently Konishi et al. Nagane et al. and Ponseti et al. have reported the efficacy of FK506 for the treatment of MG in non-blind prospective studies. However the long-term efficacy and safety of FK506 have not been well established. In this study we clearly demonstrated that seven patients 77.8% showed improvements in the total Q-MG score 1year after FK506 administration and the efficacy was maintained for a maximum observation period of 3years strongly suggesting the effectiveness of long-term treatment with FK506.
These findings indicate that FK506 treatment is efficacious not only in the control of intractable myasthenic symptoms but also in the reduction of steroid dosage. Although the mean reduction in steroid dosage is low this might reflect the low doses that many of our patients were on at the start of this study.Although myasthenic symptoms improved 48weeks after FK506 administration in most of the responders animmediate improvement of myasthenic symptoms within 1week after FK506 administration was observed in one patient No. 9 as described previously 918. Although the exact mechanism of the immediate improvement remains unclear it is presumed that the direct effect of FK506 on the NMJ or the synergistic effect with a steroid could lead to the immediate improvement 918.Before deciding to start FK506 treatment it is important to identify potential responders. Utsugisawa et al. reported that FK506 is more effective in MG patients with elevated PBMC IL-2 production at least in the early stages of treatment 15. In the present study however the improvement of myasthenic symptoms was not related to PBMC IL2 production as well as anti-AChR antibody titer the presence of thymoma disease duration and age at FK506 administration.
However we observed an elderly patient with chronic renal dysfunction who presented a high level of blood FK506 suggesting that we should constantly monitor the blood level of FK506 particularly in elderly patients. 5 end. Conclusions. Low-dose FK506 treatment appears to be well-tolerated relatively safe and may be efficacious not only for improving intractable myasthenic symptoms but also for reducing steroid dosage for long-term MG therapy. In future controlled studies are needed to confirm its efficacy. Five-year follow-up with low-dose tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis. Article history Received 24 July 2010 Received in revised form 27 September 2010 Accepted 28 September 2010 Available online 29 October 2010. Contents lists available at ScienceDirectJournal of the Neurological Sciencesj ourna l homepage www.e lsev ie r.com/ locate / jnsFive-year follow-up with low-dose tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravisNaoya Minami a Naoto Fujiki a Shizuki Doi a Koji Shima b Masaaki Niino c Seiji Kikuchi a Hidenao Sasaki da Department of Neurology Hokkaido Medical Center Sapporo Japan b Sapporo Neurology Clinic Sapporo Japan c Department of Clinical Research Hokkaido Medical Center Sapporo Japan d Departme.
Department of Clinical Resea Nishi-ku Sapporo 063-0005 Japan. Tel. 81 11 611 81E-mail address niinohok-mc.hosp.go.jp M. Niino0022-510X/  see front matter  2010 Elsevier B.V. A doi10.1016/j.jns.2010.09.033a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f oArticle history Received 24 July 2010 Received in revised form 27 September 2010 Accepted 28 September 2010 Available online 29 October 2010Keywords Myasthenia gravis Tacrolimus Therapy Immunosuppressant Steroid Side effectMyasthenia gravis MG is an antibody-mediated autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction and prednisolone PSL and immunosuppressive drugs are available for treatment. Tacrolimus a macrolide that suppresses the immune system is used as a second-line treatment for MG. There have been several reports of the effects of tacrolimus over a few years of follow-up. Here we report data from 9 patients with steroiddependent generalized MG treated with low-dose tacrolimus 23 mg/day for 5 years. Following treatment with tacrolimus mean MG-activities of daily living score improved from 4.6 at baseline to 3.3 at 5 years after initiation of treatment. Mean dose of PSL could also be reduced from 24.0 mg/day at baseline to 10.2 mg/day at 5 years although there were no cases of total withdrawal of PSL.
Tacrolimus is an important option for treatment of MG however careful management is needed for long-term treatment with this drug.rch 1-1 Yamanote 5jo 7chome 11 fax 81 11 611 5820. .ll rights reserved. 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune disorder of the neuromuscular junction characterized by fatigableweakness. The target of the autoimmune attack is the skeletal muscle acetylcholine receptor AChR in most cases however in some non-AChR components of the neuromuscular junction are targeted instead. Current treatments for MG include several immunosuppressive agents and for use as chronic immunosuppressive agents forMG corticosteroids are still the first-line therapy 1. However not all patients respond to treatment with corticosteroids alone andmany adverse events are related to treatment with these agents 1. Advances in the treatment of MG have reduced mortality rates due to the disease and several types of drugs are now available including non-steroidal immunosuppressive agents such as cyclosporine and azathioprine. Cyclosporine has shown more rapid efficacy for MG compared to azathioprine however the risk of high serum creatinine levels was increased with long-term use of cyclosporine 2.
Themaximum dose of tacrolimus forMG is 3 mg/day in Japan whichmay be low compared to that in other countries 46. The addition of tacrolimus to corticosteroids for post-thymectomy treatment in MG patients provided substantial clinical benefits comparedwith the use of prednisolone PSL alone in terms of improvement of muscular strength shortly after surgery and a substantially shorter time in the estimated median follow-up to obtain complete stable remission 7. Furthermore tacrolimus facilitated the reduction of the dose of PSL or discontinuation of steroid treatment which can reduce the serious side effects associated with long-term steroid treatment 7. However the efficacy and safety of long-term tacrolimus treatment for MG have not been established. Therehave been several early reports of the effects of tacrolimus including studies in Japan however these studies only evaluated short-term effects for example over 16 weeks 89. We report here the efficacy and safety of long-term treatment with tacrolimus 5-year follow-up in 9 patients. 2 end. Patients and methods. end. 2.1 end. Patients end.
We collected patients clinical and laboratory data retrospectively. Disease severity evaluated by MG-activities of daily living ADL score 10 dose of oral steroids and rate of anti-AChR antibody were compared at baseline and after 5 years in all patients. This study was approved by the local ethics committee of Hokkaido Medical Center.Ta bl e 1 Cl in ic alch ar ac te ri st ic s ofth e 9 pati ents atba se line.Pt N o.A geat st ar t ofta cr ol im us tr ea tm en t y ea rs G ende rA geat M G on se t y ears D ur at io n betw ee n on se t an d st ar t of ta cr ol im us tr eatm en t m on th sD ur at io n betw ee n on se t an d th ymec to m ym onth sM axim umse veri tybe fo read m in is tr at io nof ta cr ol imus MG FASe veri ty at ba se lin e M G FA Pa . th ol og y of th ymus D os e ofPS Lm g/ day A ChR A b n m ol /l IA P befo re ad m in is tr at io n of ta cr ol im usRe as ons toin tr oduc eta cr ol imus1 58M 5618 83a 3aH yper pl as ia50 b 0.
M9 64F 636 14b 3bIn vasi veth ymom a20 7. 9Ye sW or se ni ngD MM G FA M yast heni a G ra vi s Foun dati onof A m er ic aIA Pim m unoa dsor pt io n unde r m embr ane pl as m aphe re si s PSL pr edon is ol one D M  di abet esm el lit usa ndM G  m yast heni a gr avis . 2.2 end. Statistics. Data were analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Statistical significance was set at Pb0.05. 3 end. Results end. end. 3.1 end. Clinical features of MG patients at baseline. The clinical profiles of all 9 patients at baseline are shown inTable 1. Mean age at onset of MGwas 41.4 years range 3364 years and mean disease duration before treatment with tacrolimus was 109 months range 6264 months. Eight of the 9 patients underwent thymectomy. Pathology of the removed thymus in the 8 patients included hyperplasia n5 invasive thymoma n2 and noninvasive thymoma n1. Anti-AChR antibody was positive in all 8 patients. The most severe disease classification according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA before the administration of tacrolimus was N3 in 6 patients and 4 patients were treated with immunoadsorption under membrane plasmapheresis IAP at least once before initiation of tacrolimus.
3.2 end. MG-ADL score and clinical symptoms. The MG-ADL scores before tacrolimus treatment were 2 to 7 points mean 4.6 and the scores gradually decreased during the first 3 months after initiation of tacrolimus treatment Fig. 1 end. The MGADL scores remained reduced during the 5 years of follow-up however statistical analysis showed no significant decrease in MGADL score at any point compared to baseline. Two patients who had suffered with MG for more than 10 years had four or six relapses during the 3 years before treatment with tacrolimus and their relapses were significantly reduced to one during the 5 years after the initiation of treatment. During 5 years of follow-up no patients received IAP therapy. 3.3 end. Dose of oral steroids. The mean dose of oral PSL was 24.0 mg/day range 550 mg/day before initiation of tacrolimus treatment. The dose of PSL was tapered 6 months after initiation of treatment Fig. 2 end. The mean doses of PSL were 13.9 12.8 and 10.2 mg/day at 12 24 and 60 months respectively. The dose of PSL at 12 months was significantly lower compared to the dose at baseline Pb0.05. However 5 patients experienced exacerbation and increased PSL dose during the 5 years of follow-up. 3.4 end. Anti-AChR antibody.
The ratio was not reduced at 3 months but was decreased to 0.556 0.599 and 0.453 at 12 24 and 36 months respectively Fig. 3 Pb0.05 end. Thereafter the ratio did not change significantly. During the 5 years of follow-up 3 patients had an increased titer of anti-AChR and they experienced a worsening of symptoms during this period. 3.5 end. Adverse events. Table 2 shows adverse events for which therapies were needed during the 5-year follow-up. Most of these events were considered to be associated with steroid use such as bone disease and infection. Three of the 9 patients developed kidney stones. There were no severe adverse effects in any of the patients. 4 end. Discussion. We report here the data from 9 patients with steroid-dependent generalized MG treated with low-dose tacrolimus 23 mg/day for 5 years who had either repeated exacerbations of MG and difficulty in reducing PSL dose or difficulty in treating with a high enough dose of PSL because of severe side effects of PSL in spite of the severity of MG. There have been several reports of long-term follow-up of treatment of MG with tacrolimus however most of these have been 23 years follow-up.
In fact 5 of the 9 patients in this study had experienced exacerbation and needed a transient increase in the PSL dose during the 5 years of follow-up indicating clearly that long-term follow-up is needed in the evaluation of the effects of tacrolimus.Previous reports showed an early effect of tacrolimus treatment 681114. Tacrolimus improved muscle strength at only 2 weeks after the treatment commenced in a 2002 study 11 and other studies also showed significant clinical improvement for example in lower limb muscle strength 8 MG-ADL and serum levels of anti-AChR antibodies 14 shortly after patients were started on the drug. None of our patients was treated with IAP during 5 years follow-up although 4 patients received IAP treatment before the initiation of tacrolimus. MG-ADL scores also continued to decrease to 24 months after administration of tacrolimus and were then stable from 24 to60 months. On the other hand anti-AChR antibody titers showed no change at 3 months after initiation of tacrolimus but decreased gradually thereafter. We needed more time to see the effects of tacrolimus compared to previous studies.Treatment with tacrolimus can decrease the required dose of oral steroids.
The same group reported with longer follow-up mean 2.5 years range 0.133.72 that 77 of 79 MG patients who switched from cyclosporine to tacrolimus could stop PSL treatment with an improvement in clinical symptoms evaluated by quantitative MG score 5. In a study by Konishi et al. in 12 MG patients who had an MG-ADL score of 23 at baseline and with 88104 weeks of follow-up half of the patients showed improvement at the end of the study and PSL dosage could be reduced in 7 patients 58% with a mean reduction ratio of 37% 12. Ponseti et al. reported that all 40 patients treated with tacrolimus could stop PSL treatment 7 and the same group reported that after initiation of tacrolimus PSL treatment could be withdrawn in 91.6% of patients after the first year and in 95.1% at the end of the study 6. In the latter study mean follow-up time was 49.3 months and the data suggest the usefulness of starting treatment with PSL/tacrolimus in the early post-thymectomy period 6. In our patients none could stop PSL after initiation of tacrolimus although low-dose tacrolimus could reduce the oral dose of PSL.
Another possible explanation is the lower initial dose of tacrolimus 23 mg/day in our patientscomparedwith initiation of tacrolimus from doses of 0.1 mg/kg/day in other studies 46.With regard to adverse events infection and renal toxicity have been reported at high doses of tacrolimus when used for organ transplantation 15. By contrast no serious adverse events have been associated with tacrolimus treatment of MG for 16 weeks 89 6 32 months 14 1 year 13 more than 2 years 16 88104 weeks 12 or 36 months 17. Ponseti et al. reported 3 patients with solid tumors however these events were unlikely to be caused by tacrolimus because of the short interval between start of treatment and diagnosis of malignancy 4. There were no other serious side effects associated with the administration of tacrolimus including infection 4. In the large study by Ponseti et al. with 212 MG patients 4.9% stopped tacrolimus because of major adverse effects which occurredmostly during the initial months after the introduction of the drug 6. In the other reports the administration of tacrolimus started with doses of 0.1 mg/kg/day then adjusted to achieve plasma drug concentrations of between 7 and 8 ng/ml and this high dosemight be associated with withdrawal due to adverse events 46.
One of these patients wanted to discontinue tacrolimus and the other patient became HBs-antigen positive and experienced liver dysfunction. In the latter patient steroid pulsed therapy had been administered immediately prior to the development of liver dysfunction so it is not clear whether liver dysfunction was due to tacrolimus alone.There are some limitations of this study because of the relatively small numbers of patients treatedwithmultiplemodalities the lack of controls and the retrospective nature of data collection. Furthermore this study may include clinician bias regarding benefit of therapy and clinical improvement over 5 years may in part be due to the natural course of the disease. This study however provides some information about the 5-year long-term use of tacrolimus. In our study 5 patients experienced some worsening of symptoms during the 5 years of follow-up however in general the efficacy of tacrolimus was maintained for 5 years without renal impairment or glucose intolerance. For further evaluation of tacrolimus for the treatment for MG data from studies with larger numbers of patients and longer followup are needed.References1 Meriggioli MN Sanders DB. Autoimmune myasthenia gravis emerging clinical and biological heterogeneity. Lancet Neurol 2009847590.
Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 19943301797810. 3 Kino T Hatanaka H Hashimoto M Nishiyama M Goto T Okuhara M et al. FK-506a novel immunosuppressant isolated from a Streptomyces. I end. Fermentation isolation and physico-chemical and biological characteristics. J Antibiot Tokyo 198740124955. 4 Ponseti JM Azem J Fort JM Codina A Montoro JB Armengol M. Benefits of FK506 tacrolimus for residual cyclosporin- and prednisone-resistant myasthenia gravis one-year follow-up of an open-label study. Clin Neurol Neurosurg 200510718790. 5 Ponseti JM Azem J Fort JM Lpez-Cano M Vilallonga R Buera M et al. Long-term results of tacrolimus in cyclosporine- and prednisone-dependent myasthenia gravis. Neurology 20056416413. 6 Ponseti JM Gamez J Azem J Lpez-Cano M Vilallonga R Armengol M. Tacrolimus formyasthenia gravis a clinical study of 212 patients. Ann NY Acad Sci 20081132 25463. 7 Ponseti JM Gamez J Azem J Fort JM Lpez-Cano M Vilallonga R et al. Postthymectomy combined treatment of prednisone and tacrolimus versus prednisone alone for consolidation of complete stable remission in patients with myasthenia gravis a non-randomized non-controlled study. Curr Med Res Opin 200723126978. 8 Konishi T Yoshiyama Y Takamori M Yagi K Mukai E. Japanese FK506 MG Study Group.
Muscle Nerve 2003285704. 9 Wakata N Saito T Tanaka S Hirano T Oka K. Tacrolimus hydrate FK506 therapeutic effects and selection of responders in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. Clin Neurol Neurosurg 200310658. 10 Wolfe GI Herbelin L Nations SP Foster B Bryan WW Barohn RJ. Myasthenia gravis activities of daily living profile. Neurology 19995214879. 11 Yoshikawa H Mabuchi K Yasukawa Y Takamori M Yamada M. Low-dose tacrolimus for intractable myasthenia gravis. J Clin Neurosci 200296278. 12 Konishi T Yoshiyama Y Takamori M Saida T. Long-term treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis with FK506 tacrolimus. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 20057644850. 13 Nagane Y Utsugisawa K Obara D Kondoh R Terayama Y. Efficacy of low-dose FK506 in the treatment of Myasthenia gravis  a randomized pilot study. Eur Neurol 20055314650. 14 Shimojima Y Matsuda M Gono T Ishii W Tokuda T Ikeda S. Tacrolimus in refractory patients with myasthenia gravis coadministration and tapering of oral prednisolone. J Clin Neurosci 2006133944. 15 Alessiani M Cillo U Fung JJ Irish W Abu-Elmagd K Jain A et al. Adverse effects of FK 506 overdosage after liver transplantation. Transplant Proc 19932562834. 16 Tada M Shimohata T Tada M Oyake M Igarashi S Onodera O et al.
J Neurol Sci 20062471720. 17 Furukawa Y Yoshikawa H Iwasa K Yamada M. Clinical efficacy and cytokine network-modulating effects of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis. J Neuroimmunol 200819510815. Safety of Prednisone for Ocular Myasthenia Gravis. Background Treatment with chronic corticosteroids has been associated with frequent significant adverse effects. We hypothesized that a long-term low-dose prednisone regimen for ocular myasthenia gravis OMG would have a low rate of major side effects. Methods Consecutive OMG patients from a single institution over a 16-year period and treated with 1 month of daily prednisone were included. Steroid-related complications were defined as the development/worsening of conditions requiring alteration to medical therapy. Serious complications included conditions requiring emergency care hospitalization or surgery. Results Eighty-three patients with follow-up period ranging from 1 to 271 months median 58 months were included. Fifty-eight 70% patients had follow-up period of24 months. The maximum prednisone dose ranged from 10 to 60 mg. Tapering to 10 mg/d required 4 months for all but 2 patients. Median average daily dose following the initial course was 5 mg daily interquartile range 47.5 mg.
Only one patient had a serious complication within the first 2 years 2-year cumulative risk 1% but this individual was not following the recommended regimen. Conclusions Low-dose prednisone for OMG has an acceptable side-effect profile and causes few serious complications 2-year riskw1%. However patients need monitoring to detect the relatively common but less serious complications 2-year risk w39% to adjust medical therapy in a timely fashion. Safety of Prednisone for Ocular Myasthenia Gravis. Beau B end. Bruce MD MS Mark J. Kupersmith MDBackground Treatment with chronic corticosteroids has been associated with frequent significant adverse effects. We hypothesized that a long-term low-dose prednisone regimen for ocular myasthenia gravis OMG would have a low rate of major side effects. Methods Consecutive OMG patients from a single institution over a 16-year period and treated with 1 month of daily prednisone were included. Steroid-related complications were defined as the development/worsening of conditions requiring alteration to medical therapy. Serious complications included conditions requiring emergency care hospitalization or surgery. Results Eighty-three patients with follow-up period ranging from 1 to 271 months median 58 months were included.
The maximum prednisone dose ranged from 10 to 60 mg. Tapering to 10 mg/d required 4 months for all but 2 patients. Median average daily dose following the initial course was 5 mg daily interquartile range 47.5 mg. During the first 2 years there were 24.5 complications per 100 person-years. Only one patient had a serious complication within the first 2 years 2-year cumulative risk 1% but this individual was not following the recommended regimen. Conclusions Low-dose prednisone for OMG has an acceptable side-effect profile and causes few serious complications 2-year riskw1%. However patients need monitoring to detect the relatively common but less serious complications 2-year risk w39% to adjust medical therapy in a timely fashion.Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology 201232212215 doi 10.1097/WNO.0b013e3182536558  2012 by North American Neuro-Ophthalmology SocietyT he use of corticosteroids in the immunologic treatmentof ocular myasthenia gravis OMG is controversial primarily because of the potential for significant side effects 1. Some have suggested that steroids should be used only when absolutely necessary in the treatment of myasthenia gravis 2 whereas others have shown favorable outcomes with long-term low-dose regimens of prednisone 3.
The combination of prednisone with other therapies such as azathioprine may allow for lower dosing of prednisone but it remains unclear whether these therapies are equivalent or superior to prednisone when used alone and whether they offer improved outcomes when used in combination with prednisone 511. Unlike corticosteroids which are effective within weeks these other immunosuppressive therapies often achieve their benefit only after several months.We hypothesized that the systemic hypertension diabetes mellitus osteoporosis gastrointestinal disorders and infections that typically occur with long-term moderate-to-high-dose therapy 3 may be minimized with long-term low-dose therapy prednisone 10 mg daily especially if co-interventions are utilized 1112. Our goal was to determine the side-effect profile of a low-dose regimen for the treatment of OMG and to determine the safety of systemic corticosteroid use in OMG. METHODS end. Consecutive patients with OMG evaluated and managed at the Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery at Roosevelt Hospital and New York Eye and Ear Infirmary by one of the investigators M.J.K. were considered for inclusion. The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board at St. Lukes Roosevelt Hospital.
OMG was diagnosed on the basis of having ptosis binocular diplopia or extraocular motility limitation confirmed by ice test edrophonium test repetitive nerve stimulation electromyography single-fiber electromyography or positive acetylcholine receptor antibody testing 1314. Departments of Ophthalmology and Neurology BBB Emory University Atlanta Georgia and Neuro-Ophthalmology Unit MJK INN at Roosevelt Hospital and Albert Einstein School of Medicine New York New York. The authors report no conflicts of interest. Supported in part by an unrestricted departmental grant Department of Ophthalmology from Research to Prevent Blindness Inc New York and by National Institutes of Health/National Eye Institute core grant P30-EY06360 Department of Ophthalmology. Dr Bruce receives research support from the National Institutes of Health/ National Eye Institute K23-EY019341. The authors have no relevant financial disclosure. Address correspondence to Mark J. Kupersmith MD NeuroOphthalmology Unit Roosevelt Hospital 1000 10th Avenue New York NY 10019 E-mail mkuperchpnet.org212 Bruce and Kupersmith J Neuro-Ophthalmol 2012 32 212-215Copyright  North American Neuro-Ophthalmology Society.
In general patients were evaluated monthly for the first 3 months and thereafter every 6 months.Patients were not randomized to therapy. Those with diplopia or with ptosis that blocked the visual axis and were unresponsive to pyridostigmine were treated with prednisone. Patients were not given corticosteroids if they refused or had a contraindication including active infection gastrointestinal ulcer history of tuberculosis diabetes mellitus that was difficult to control severe hypertension or congestive heart failure. Patients with a history of a positive purified protein derivative or one or more calcified lesions suggestive of healed tuberculosis on the chest CT received 300 mg of isoniazid and 50 mg of pyridoxine concomitantly with prednisone. Patients were prescribed a daily H2 blocker ranitidine hydrochloride nizatidine or famotidine and 10001500 mg of calcium daily as long as they took prednisone.
tion elevated intraocular pressure glaucoma or cataract. Serious complications included conditions requiring emergency care hospitalization or surgery.Statistical analysis was performed using R a language and environment for statistical computing R Foundation for Statistical Computing http//www.r-project.org. We performed univariate analyses to produce summary measures for continuous measures medians interquartile ranges and ranges and proportions. Significance was defined as the 0.05 level. Person-time for incidence rates was determined using time of prednisone initiation as the start of follow-up and using either the number of weeks to last follow-up censored or the development of the first complication event as the end of person-time. KaplanMeier plots were used for graphical presentation of the survival curves. Confidence limits were calculated using the normal approximation of the Poisson distribution. RESULTS end. Eighty-three patients with confirmed OMG were included. Median age at diagnosis was 61 years interquartile range 46.573 years range 1687 years. Sixty 72% patients were men. Follow-up period ranged from 1 to 271 months with a median of 58 months. Fifty-eight 70% patients had follow-up of at least 24 months.
Tapering from this dose to 10 mg/d required 4 months orless for all but 2 of the patients and a significant majority of the patients 58/83 70% required exactly 3 months to taper to 10 mg. The median average daily dose following the initial course was 5 mg daily interquartile range 47.5 mg.Twenty-nine 35% patients developed a complication Table 1 that could potentially be related to steroid use within the total period of follow-up 439 person-years corresponding to a rate of 6.6 complications per 100 personyears 95% confidence interval CI 4.29.0 Fig. 1A end. Nine 31% of these 29 patients developed more than 1 complication during the total period of follow-up. Within the first 2 years the complication rate was 24.5 per 100 person-years 26 complications during the 106 person-years accumulated during the first 2 years of study 95% CI 15.033.9 Fig. 1A inset end. There were 10 complications in the first year 1-year cumulative risk 12% and 3 during the second year 2-year cumulative risk 16%.Three patients had serious complications during the total period of follow-up corresponding to a rate of 0.7 serious complications per 100 person-years 95% CI 0.01.5 Fig. 1B end.
The rate within the first 2 years was 2.2 serious complications per 100 person-years 95% CI 0.04.7 Fig. 1B inset end. The one patient who had a serious complication during this period developed severe hypertension complicated by myocardial infarction during month 12. However this patient was not following the recommended prednisone regimen instead taking 2040 mg daily throughout the time prior to his associated complication by obtaining prednisone from multiple practitioners. DISCUSSION. Our retrospective study demonstrated a low rate of serious complications related to a low-dose steroid regimen for OMG. Seventy percent of our patients had more than 2 years of follow-up. Assuming a constant rate of 2.2 serious complications per 100 person-years during a 2-year study we have extrapolated our results to a larger patient cohort. If we assume a sample size of 231 patients we would expect 4.3% 10/231 95% CI 0%9% of the patient treated with steroids to develop a serious complication that could be related to steroids.
Given these assumptions we would expect only 1.4% 3/231 of subjects to develop a serious complication.Our data suggest that the use of a low-dose corticosteroid regimen has an acceptable side-effect profile for the treatment of OMG. This is in contrast to the frequent adverse effects seen with the relatively long-term high-doseBruce and Kupersmith J Neuro-Ophthalmol 2012 32 212-215 213Copyright  North American Neuro-Ophthalmology Society. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.corticosteroid regimens 1516. Many clinicians are wary of the adverse effects of chronic corticosteroid use and frequently prescribe only pyridostigmine. Although this can be helpful for ptosis it is rarely completely successful in relieving diplopia and fails to alter the underlying autoimmune process that leads to GMG in patients who first present with OMG 617.Our study was limited because it was retrospective and represented a single centers experience. There may have been patient selection bias although we included patients withoutregard to having detectable acetylcholine receptorbinding antibody.
Patients need monitoring for relatively common but less serious complications to ensure that these issues are detected early and allow for timely adjustment of medical therapy.214 Bruce and Kupersmith J Neuro-Ophthalmol 2012 32 212-215Copyright  North American Neuro-Ophthalmology Society. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited. Seronegative myasthenia gravis associated with atonic urinary bladder and accommodative insufficiency. We report a 20-year-old female with generalized myasthenia gravis MG who developed atonic urinary bladder and accommodative insufficiency. Although her sera did not contain antibodies to either nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR or voltage-gated calcium channels a positive intravenous edrophonium test and a waning phenomenon on electromyographic studies indicated a diagnosis of seronegative MG. Myasthenic symptoms as well as urinary incontinence and impaired near vision disappeared with slight sequelae after corticosteroid therapy and total removal of the hyperplastic thymus. These symptoms recurred during a tapering course of corticosteroids and improved again with an increased dose. Therefore in this patient the neuromuscular transmission of muscarinic type of AChR in the smooth muscles was also affected.
We report a 20-year-old female with generalized myasthenia gravis MG who developed atonic urinary bladder and accommodative insufficiency. Although her sera did not contain antibodies to either nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR or voltage-gated calcium channels a positive intravenous edrophonium test and a waning phenomenon on electromyographic studies indicated a diagnosis of seronegative MG. Myasthenic symptoms as well as urinary incontinence and impaired near vision disappeared with slight sequelae after corticosteroid therapy and total removal of the hyperplastic thymus. These symptoms recurred during a tapering course of corticosteroids and improved again with an increased dose. Therefore in this patient the neuromuscular transmission of muscarinic type of AChR in the smooth muscles was also affected. This patient provides insight into the mechanisms by which some smooth muscles are involved in MG.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody Urinary incontinence Accommodative insufficiency Muscarinic receptor1.
Some early reports however indicated that eye muscles innervated through the muscarinic type of AChR may be involved to various extents in this disease Manson and Stern 1965 Yamazaki and Ishikawa 1976. We encountered a seronegative generalized MG patient who exhibited marked involvement of ciliary muscles and the urinary bladder all symptoms responded to an immunosuppressive therapy for MG. We discuss the mechanisms by which neuromuscular transmission of the muscarinic type of AChR is disturbed in some patients with MG. Corresponding author. Tel.  81-952-31-651 I ext. 2371 Fax  8 I-952-32-3026 or  81-952-33-5395.0022-510X/95/09.50 0 1995 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved SSDI 0022-510X9500192-12. Case reportA 20-year-old woman noticed occasional double vision and urinary disturbance three months prior to subacute development of persistent diplopia swallowing disturbance and generalized weakness. There was no preceding flu-like illness or diarrhea. On admission she could barely walk by herself. She was afebrile and normal on physical examinations. Complete blood counts and the levels of serum transaminases and creatine kinase were normal.
Deep tendon reflexes were slightly exaggerated while superficial and deep sensation were intact. Intravenous administration of edrophonium chloride unequivocally improved extraocular movements Fig. 1 and limb muscle fatigability. Electromyographic studies revealed that there was a waning phenomenon 9% reduction in motor action potentials on repetitive stimuli of 3 Hz without a significant waxing phenomenon 20 Hz in the thenar muscles. Accordingly she was diagnosed with gen-eralized myasthenia gravis MG. The patient also complained of disturbance in the near vision but that was not examined in detail on the first admission. Cystometry was performed to examine worsening urinary incontinence the patients urinary bladder did not begin to contract until the volume of infused saline reached 438 ml indicating atonic bladder. There was neither orthostatic hypotension nor a disturbance in perspiration. Treatment with 100 mg prednisolone and pyridostigmine was initiated and then total thymectomy was performed. Histological findings of the resected thymus were consistent with hyperplasia containing lymphoid follicles. Myasthenic symptoms as well as disturbances in urination and near vision responded to these treatments.
Urinary catheterization was required. She also noticed a disturbance in the near vision. Ophthalmologic studies confirmed normal pupillary reaction to light and accommodative insufficiency accommodation measured 2.5-2.8 diopter normal > 8.5 diopter using an Ishihara type near point meter HE-160 Handaya Japan. Accommodative insufficiency improved after intravenous injection of 10 mg edrophonium chloride but was unresponsive to intravenous injection of 2 ml of 8.5% calcium gluconate as a placebo Fig. 2 end. Anticholinesterases were not administered when these studies were performed. Myasthenic symptoms and urinary incontinence improved in response to an increased dose of corticosteroids accommodation improved to 9.0 diopter which was within the normal range for her age.Fig. 1 end. Upward gaze before upper half and 1 min after lower halo intravenous injection of edrophonium chloride. The patient was hardly able to gaze upwards before injection whereas she could maintain an upward gaze for more than 1 min after injection.D 5edrophonium chloride t /a T3 Q . 4 a calcium gluconate11 00 2 4 6 6 10 12 minFig. 2 end. Changes in the amount of accommodation after intravenous injections of edrophonium chloride 0 and calcium gluconate  A .
Calcium gluconak was used as a placebo after the injection the amount of accommodation i creased by 0.3 diopter which was not significant. D  diopter.Repeated attempts to detect anti-nicotinic AChR antibodies failed when using a highly sensitive assay system cut-off value 0.07 nM Ohta et al. 1990. Sera obtained before corticosteroid therapy was begun did not contain antibodies to voltage-gated calcium channels VGCC Motomura et al. 1995 rheumatoid factors antinuclear antibodies or anti-DNA antibodies. Thyroid functions were normal throughout the clinical course.3. DiscussionFirst it would be pertinent to reassess the clinical diagnosis of this patient. Lack of gastrointestinal symptoms and pupillary constrictor muscle involvement on two separate episodes of recurrent generalized weakness is sufficient to rule out the possibility of botulism or diphtheria. Autoimmune neuropathy was unlikely because she showed brisk tendon reflexes and normal sensory systems. A combination of limb muscle weakness and cholinergic dysautonomia could occur in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome LEMS.
Therefore this is the first MG patient who was complicated with atonic urinary bladder and accommodative insufficiency.Accommodative insufficiency was reported to be not uncommonly associated with MG Manson and Stem 1965. It is also known that pupillary response to light stimulus is affected in MG but only subclinically Yamazaki and Ishikawa 1976. In contrast to previous reports this MG patient was unique because a prominentsymptom other than limb myasthenia was urinary incontinence. There was an abstract describing one MG patient whose urinary incontinence appeared in association with myasthenic symptoms and responded to plasma exchange Howard et al. 1992. Therefore simultaneous disturbances in urination and near vision are although only rarely likely to form a part of MG.Because muscarinic but not nicotinic AChR mediates neuromuscular transmission in the ciliary muscles of the eyes and the detrusor muscles of the urinary bladder the occurrence of disturbances in these muscles in MG is of great interest.
Alternatively there is a possibility that antibodies to nicotinic AChR affect neuromuscular transmission of muscarinic AChR. For example gallamine which blocks cholinergic transmission of nicotinic AChR also interacts with a site on muscarinic AChR and interferes with transmission by changing the agonist binding to muscarinic AChR allosterically Birdsall et al. 1983. This type of action rendered by gallamine is known to be organ-specific Birdsall et al. 1983 so that some smooth muscles may be more susceptible to an interference of this type. A rare but possible involvement of the detrusor muscles of the urinary bladder in MG may be explained by the unusual nature of those muscles which need to be stimulated at high frequencies to cause contraction deGroat and Booth 1980.It should be emphasized that this patient was negative for antibodies to nicotinic AChR. Therefore antibodies against rare epitopes of nicotinic AChR or those against epitopes outside nicotinic AChR at the motor end-plate of skeletal muscles may have been more potent than the usualanti-nicotinic AChR antibodies in interfering with neuromuscular transmission of muscarinic AChR in the smooth muscles.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Drs. C end. Endo and M.
T end. Nakamura for measuring anti-VGCC antibody levels.ReferencesBannister R. and A.D end. Hoyes 1981 Generalized smooth-muscle disease with defective muscarinic-receptor function. Br end. Med end. J. 282 101% 1018. Birdsall N.J.M. E.C. Hulme and J.M. Stockton 1983 Muscarinic receptor subclasses allosteric interactions. In Molecular Neurobiology Cold Spring Harbor Symposia on Quantitative Biology Vol. 48 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York pp. 53-56 end. deGroat W.C. and A.M end. Booth 1980 Urinary bladder. Physiology of the urinary bladder and urethra. Ann end. Intern end. Med. 92 part 2 312-315. Engel A.G. 1984 Myasthenia gravis and myasthenic syndromes. Ann end. Neurol. 16 519-534. Howard Jr. J.F. M.K. Donovan and M.S. Tucker 1992 Urinary incontinence in myasthenia gravis a single-fiber electromyographic study. Ann end. Neurol. 32 254. Manson N end. and G end. Stem 1965 Defects of near vision in myasthenia gravis. Lancet 1 935-937. Michaelson D.M. A.D. Korczyn and M. Sokolovsky 1982 Antibodies to muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in myasthenia gravis. Biochem end. Biophys end. Res end. Commun. 104 52-57. Motomura M. I. Johnston B. Lang A end. Vincent and J. Newsom-Davis 1995 An improved diagnostic assay for Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. J end. Neurol end. Neurosurg.
Ohta M. K. Ohta F end. Mori N end. Itoh H end. Nishitani and K. Hayashi 1990 Improved radioassay of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody application for the detection of extremely low antibody titers in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis. Clin end. Chem. 36 91 I-913. Yamazaki A. and S end. Ishikawa 1976 Abnormal pupillary responses in myasthenia gravis. A pupillographic study. Br end. J end. Ophthalmol. 60 575-580. Invasive Thymoma in Ocular Myasthenia Gravis Diagnostic and Prognostic Implications. W e read with great interest the recent article by Bruce and Kupersmith 1 discussing the safety of prednisone in treating patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Yet before treatment there are critically important steps in evaluating these patients. We illustrate this point by presenting 2 cases of OMG that were found to have invasive thymoma. Case 1 A 50-year-old Hispanic man presented with a 4-month history of ptosis and diplopia which was worse in the evening and better in the morning. He had no other symptoms. Visual acuity was 20/20 bilaterally. External examination showed bilateral variable ptosis which increased with sustained upgaze mild orbicularis weakness and positive Cogan lid twitch sign.
Ocular motility revealed variable exotropia of 1216 prism diopters and bilateral pseudointernuclear ophthalmoplegia. Ice test was positive resulting in an improvement in ocular motility and ptosis. Ophthalmoscopy was normal bilaterally. Serum acetylcholine receptor antibodies were elevated binding antibody  33.0 nmol/L positive .0.5 nmol/L blocking antibody  48% positive .25% modulating antibody  44% positive .26%. Electromyographic and nerve conduction studies were diagnostic of myasthenia gravis. Computed tomography CT of the chest revealed a thymic mass Fig. 1A end. At surgery in addition to thymectomy pericardial resection was performed because the tumor was found to be invading the pericardium. Pathology confirmed invasive thymoma with mixed pattern grade B1 B2 and focal B3 and no lymphovascular or perineural invasion stage III. Following surgery the patient had near complete resolution of his myasthenic symptoms. Case 2 A 67-year-old Caucasian woman developed leftsided ptosis and diplopia and edrophonium testing and acetylcholine receptor antibodies were positive. CT of the chest disclosed nodular densities in the anterior mediastinum Fig. 1B end. Thymectomy revealed invasive thymic epithelial neoplasm with conventional and atypical features stage II grade B3.
Nineteen months after initial presentation the patient developed an acute exacerbation of myasthenia gravis with ptosis diplopia shortness of breath and upper extremity weakness. She had a complicated hospital course including atrial fibrillation and respiratory failure and she was discharged 4 months later on weekly plasmapheresis pyridostigmine and prednisone. On examination there was mild bilateral orbicularis weakness but no Cogan lid twitch sign and variable exotropia of 2050 prism-diopters and right hypertropia. Follow-up PET and chest CT have remained stable. We emphasize 3 important points from our cases. First it is essential that we remind our referring clinicians to obtain imaging of the mediastinum in patients with ocular and generalized myasthenia gravis 23. Second delayed diagnosis and treatment of thymoma can lead to disease progression a higher stage at diagnosis and a worse systemic outcome as more invasive stages correlate with higher mortality rates 45. Third patients who have undergone thymectomy for malignant or invasive disease and present FIG. 1 end. A end. Case 1 end. Thymic mass measures 20  20  23 mm. B end. Case 2 end. Thymoma appears as multiple nodular densities measuring 14  10 mm. Circle denotes thymoma.
W e read with great interest the recent article by Bruceand Kupersmith 1 discussing the safety of prednisone in treating patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Yet before treatment there are critically important steps in evaluating these patients. We illustrate this point by presenting 2 cases of OMG that were found to have invasive thymoma. Case 1 A 50-year-old Hispanic man presented with a 4-month history of ptosis and diplopia which was worse in the evening and better in the morning. He had no other symptoms. Visual acuity was 20/20 bilaterally. External examination showed bilateral variable ptosis which increased with sustained upgaze mild orbicularis weakness and positive Cogan lid twitch sign. The pupils were isocoric and there was no relative afferent pupillary defect. Ocular motility revealed variable exotropia of 1216 prism diopters and bilateral pseudointernuclear ophthalmoplegia. Ice test was positive resulting in an improvement in ocular motility and ptosis. Ophthalmoscopy was normal bilaterally. Serum acetylcholine receptor antibodies were elevated binding antibody  33.0 nmol/L positive .0.5 nmol/L blocking antibody  48% positive .25% modulating antibody  44% positive .26%. Electromyographic and nerve conduction studies were diagnostic of myasthenia gravis.
1A.At surgery in addition to thymectomy pericardial resection was performed because the tumor was found to be invading the pericardium. Pathology confirmed invasive thymoma with mixed pattern grade B1 B2 and focal B3 and no lymphovascular or perineural invasion stage III. Following surgery the patient had near complete resolution of his myasthenic symptoms. Case 2 A 67-year-old Caucasian woman developed leftsided ptosis and diplopia and edrophonium testing and acetylcholine receptor antibodies were positive. CT of the chest disclosed nodular densities in the anterior mediastinum Fig. 1B end. Thymectomy revealed invasive thymic epithelial neoplasm with conventional and atypical features stage II grade B3. The patient received postoperative radiation therapy and positron emission tomography PET and CT performed within the first year and a half the following surgery were negative for tumor recurrence or metastases.Nineteen months after initial presentation the patient developed an acute exacerbation of myasthenia gravis with ptosis diplopia shortness of breath and upper extremity weakness. She had a complicated hospital course includingatrial fibrillation and respiratory failure and she was discharged 4 months later on weekly plasmapheresis pyridostigmine and prednisone.
Follow-up PET and chest CT have remained stable.We emphasize 3 important points from our cases. First it is essential that we remind our referring clinicians to obtain imaging of the mediastinum in patients with ocular and generalized myasthenia gravis 23. Second delayed diagnosis and treatment of thymoma can lead to disease progression a higher stage at diagnosis and a worse systemic outcome as more invasive stages correlate with higher mortality rates 45. Third patients who have undergone thymectomy for malignant or invasive disease and presentLetters to the Editor J Neuro-Ophthalmol 2013 33 307-318 307Copyright  North American Neuro-Ophthalmology Society. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.with worsening myasthenic symptoms including ocular complaints might benefit from repeat mediastinal imaging to rule out recurrent or residual thymoma 6.Cynthia Ishin Tung MD Department of OphthalmologyThe University of Texas Medical Branch Galveston TX Department of OphthalmologyThe Methodist Hospital Houston TXDiana Chao MD Department of OphthalmologyThe University of Texas Medical Branch Galveston TX Department of OphthalmologyThe Method.
ity of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics Iowa City IA agleetmhs.orgSupported in part by an unrestricted grant from the Research to Prevent Blindness to the University of Texas Medical Branch Galveston TX.The authors report no conflicts of interest. Idiopathic Sclerosing Orbital Inflammation Presentation of an Unusual Case With Isolated Bilateral Optic. Nerve InvolvementW e read with great interest the report by Levinet al 1 regarding the role of the optic nerve biopsy in the management of progressive optic neuropathy. We had the opportunity to evaluate a 50-year-old man with progressive deterioration of vision in his left eye for 2 months with minimal periocular pain. Visual acuity was 20/20 right eye and no light perception left eye. The right fundus was normal but there was marked optic disc edema in the left eye Fig. 1 end. Magnetic resonance imaging MRI of the brain and orbits demonstrated enhancement and thickening of the left optic nerve Fig. 2 end. An extensive work-up including hematologic tests lumbar puncture and computed tomography of chest abdomen and pelvis was unremarkable. Thepatient was given 1 g of methylprednisolone intravenously for 3 days followed by a tapering dose of oral steroids over several months.
Acuity was 20/40 right eye and no light perception left eye. Funduscopy revealed right optic disc edema and left optic atrophy. MRI demonstrated thickening of the right optic with marked enhancement following intravenous contrast. Prednisone was restarted at a dose of 1 mg/kg/d and there was rapid improvement in the vision in the right eye with resolution of right optic disc edema.308 Letters to the Editor J Neuro-Ophthalmol 2013 33 307-318Copyright  North American Neuro-Ophthalmology Society. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited. Mycophenolate mofetil for myasthenia gravis. The authors report a retrospective analysis of the use of mycophenolate mofetil MyM in 85 patients with autoimmune myasthenia gravis. The Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA postintervention status PIS was used to characterize the treatment response in each patient. Sixty-two patients 73% achieved a PIS status indicating improvement. Quantitative strength testing performed on the majority of patients before and after treatment also improved. Side effects to MyM were observed in 27% of patients but required discontinuation in only 6%.
The effectiveness of each of these is limited by patient tolerance adverse side effects and variable efficacy. Mycophenolate mofetil MyM selectively blocks purine synthesis in lymphocytes thereby inhibiting their proliferation. Preliminary reports indicate that MyM may be effective in the treatment of MG including a prospective open-label trial1 a retrospective case series2 and a double blind placebo-controlled pilot study.3 We report our experience using MyM in the immunotherapy of MG. Methods end. Patients end. Potential patients for this retrospective study were identified from the myasthenia gravis clinics at Duke University Medical Center and Rush-Presbyterian-St. Lukes Medical Center by a search of the respective clinic databases. These databases are registered as data repositories with the institutional review board IRB of each institution and IRB-approved procedures for data entry storage and analysis were followed. Patients had an established diagnosis of autoimmune MG based on either elevated serum titers of acetylcholine receptor binding antibodies AChR-Ab or electrodiagnostic testing demonstrating a primary disturbance of neuromuscular transmission.
MyM treatment. MyM doses ranged from 1 g/day to 3 g/day. A baseline complete blood count and for Rush patients baseline serum chemistries were obtained and repeated every 1 to 2 months during treatment with MyM. The indication for starting MyM was determined for each patient. Evaluation. Patients were classified according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification at the time of initiation of MyM.4 The primary measure of response to treatment was the MGFA postintervention status PIS scale.4 The patients symptoms and examination by a physician skilled in the evaluation of neuromuscular disease form the basis for this classification. In 56 patients quantitative MG QMG4 scores and in 76 manual muscle testing MMT scores5 were performed before MyM was begun and at the last clinic visit. The corticosteroid dose in mg per 48 hours and pyridostigmine dose in mg per 24 hours were also calculated for each patient if applicable before and after treatment. Adverse events. Medical records were reviewed to identify adverse events. Adverse events were considered treatment related if the symptoms or laboratory abnormalities occurred during treatment with MyM and had not been present prior to treatment. Results end. Patient characteristics.
Of these 20 had taken MyM for less than 3 months at the time of analysis and 7 were seen only once or had inadequate follow-up data. Data from the remaining 85 patients were analyzed. The clinical features of these patients at the time MyM was begun are summarized in table 1. Twenty-eight patients were seronegative for the AChR binding antibodies. Fourteen patients given MyM were classified as being refractory i.e. they had more than mild weakness MGFA class IIIa or worse had been treated with two or more immunosuppressive agents other than prednisone that were either ineffective or poorly tolerated or they required chronic plasma exchange or IV immunoglobulin. Efficacy end. Sixty-two patients 73% achieved a PIS classification of pharmacologic remission minimal manifestations or improved indicating clinical improvement table 2. MMT and QMG scores and prednisone doses were all significantly less after treatment figure. Subgroup analyses revealed no significant differences in response based on AChR-Ab or thymectomy status duration of MyM therapy or disease severity except that 38% of 13 patients with severe weakness MGFA class IV did not improve after taking MyM four of these patients were classified as refractory. These authors contributed equally to this work.
Meriggioli and Rowin Rush University Rush-Presbyterian-St. Lukes Medical Center Chicago IL the Department of Neurology Dr. Ciafaloni University of Rochester School of Medicine NY and the Division of Neurology Drs. Al-Hayk Massey and Sanders and B. Tucker-Lipscomb Duke University Medical Center Durham NC. Presented at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology April 3 2003. Received May 28 2003. Accepted in final form July 26 2003. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Matthew N. Meriggioli Rush University Dept. of Neurological Sciences 1725 W. Harrison Street Suite 1106 Chicago IL 60612 e-mail MatthewNMeriggiolirush.edu 1438 Copyright  2003 by AAN Enterprises Inc. Corticosteroids were discontinued in 8 of 62 13% patients treated with steroids at the time MyM was begun. The corticosteroid dose was decreased by at least 50% in 23 patients 37% and by less than 50% in 13 21%. The corticosteroid dose remained unchanged in 14 patients and was increased in one. Fifty-one patients were taking pyridostigmine when MyM was started. The pyridostigmine dose was subsequently decreased in 29 57% remained unchanged in 20 39% and was increased in 2 4%.
The mean time to maximal objective improvement was 26.7 weeks range 8 to 104 weeks. Side effects and adverse effects. MyM was well tolerated in most patients and was discontinued because of side effects in only 5 of 85 patients 6%. The most common reason for discontinuing treatment was gastrointestinal intolerance particularly diarrhea. In all 23 patients 27% had one or more side effects. Serious treatment-associated adverse effects were rare. One patient developed West Nile virus infection while on MyM. A patient with cardiac valve disease developed congestive heart failure and bowel ischemia and died while taking MyM. Discussion. This review of MyM treatment in patients with autoimmune MG indicates that it is safe well tolerated and associated with objective evidence of clinical improvement in approximately threequarters of treated patients. These findings are similar to those reported in previous smaller studies.12 Our data suggest that MyM is effective as an adjunctive and steroid-sparing agent and as the initial or sole form of immunotherapy in MG. MyM was not as effective in patients categorized as refractory of whom fewer than half improved.
Quantitative assessments of muscle strength and fatigability QMG and MMT were available in most of our patients providing further objective criteria for clinical improvement. Patients who improved with MyM treatment had the onset of objective benefit on average 10.7 weeks from the time of treatment initiation with maximal benefit occurring at a mean of 26 weeks. Thirty-three patients had onset of improvement at 8 weeks or less suggesting that MyM may have a more rapid onset of action compared to conventional immunosuppressants. However the onset of objective improvement ranged from as early as 4 weeks to as late as 40 weeks indicating that it may take up to 10 months to determine that an individual patient is a nonresponder. The main advantage of MyM appears to be its tolerability and safety profile. Only 6% of patients had side effects that led to discontinuation. In comparison toxicity required changing the dose of azathioprine in 35% to 42% of 168 patients taking it for MG and other autoimmune neuromuscular diseases in two published studies.67 The more frequent adverse reactions associated with MyM in our study included nausea vomiting diarrhea and a higher frequency of certain infections.
Except for one patient who had a concurrent autoimmune granulocytopenia no patient developed clinically significant leukopenia. Table 1 Patient characteristics Characteristics Value Age y mean range 52 1286. NEUROLOGY 20036114381440The immunosuppressive drugs commonly used to treat autoimmune myasthenia gravis MG include corticosteroids azathioprine and cyclosporine. The effectiveness of each of these is limited by patient tolerance adverse side effects and variable efficacy. Mycophenolate mofetil MyM selectively blocks purine synthesis in lymphocytes thereby inhibiting their proliferation. Preliminary reports indicate that MyM may be effective in the treatment of MG including a prospective open-label trial1 a retrospective case series2 and a double blind placebo-controlled pilot study.3 We report our experience using MyM in the immunotherapy of MG.Methods. Patients end. Potential patients for this retrospective study were identified from the myasthenia gravis clinics at Duke University Medical Center and Rush-Presbyterian-St. Lukes Medical Center by a search of the respective clinic databases.
Patients had an established diagnosis of autoimmune MG based on either elevated serum titers of acetylcholine receptor binding antibodies AChR-Ab or electrodiagnostic testing demonstrating a primary disturbance of neuromuscular transmission. Patients were included in this study if they had been prescribed MyM during the period from February 1 1999 to September 1 2002.MyM treatment. MyM doses ranged from 1 g/day to 3 g/day. A baseline complete blood count and for Rush patients baseline serum chemistries were obtained and repeated every 1 to 2 months during treatment with MyM. The indication for starting MyM was determined for each patient.Evaluation. Patients were classified according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification at the time of initiation of MyM.4 The primary measure of response to treatment was the MGFA postintervention status PIS scale.4 The patients symptoms and examination by a physician skilled in the evaluation of neuromuscular disease form thebasis for this classification. In 56 patients quantitative MG QMG4 scores and in 76 manual muscle testing MMT scores5 were performed before MyM was begun and at the last clinic visit.
Medical records were reviewed to identify adverse events. Adverse events were considered treatment related if the symptoms or laboratory abnormalities occurred during treatment with MyM and had not been present prior to treatment.Results. Patient characteristics. MyM was prescribed for 112 patients. Of these 20 had taken MyM for less than 3 months at the time of analysis and 7 were seen only once or had inadequate follow-up data. Data from the remaining 85 patients were analyzed. The clinical features of these patients at the time MyM was begun are summarized in table 1. Twenty-eight patients were seronegative for the AChR binding antibodies. Fourteen patients given MyM were classified as being refractory i.e. they had more than mild weakness MGFA class IIIa or worse had been treated with two or more immunosuppressive agents other than prednisone that were either ineffective or poorly tolerated or they required chronic plasma exchange or IV immunoglobulin.Efficacy. Sixty-two patients 73% achieved a PIS classification of pharmacologic remission minimal manifestations or improved indicating clinical improvement table 2. MMT and QMG scores and prednisone doses were all significantly less after treatment figure.
From the Department of Neurological Sciences Drs. Meriggioli and Rowin Rush University Rush-Presbyterian-St. Lukes Medical Center Chicago IL the Department of Neurology Dr. Ciafaloni University of Rochester School of Medicine NY and the Division of Neurology Drs. Al-Hayk Massey and Sanders and B. Tucker-Lipscomb Duke University Medical Center Durham NC. Presented at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology April 3 2003. Received May 28 2003. Accepted in final form July 26 2003. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Matthew N. Meriggioli Rush University Dept. of Neurological Sciences 1725 W. Harrison Street Suite 1106 Chicago IL 60612 e-mail MatthewNMeriggiolirush.edu1438 Copyright  2003 by AAN Enterprises Inc.Corticosteroids were discontinued in 8 of 62 13% patients treated with steroids at the time MyM was begun. The corticosteroid dose was decreased by at least 50% in 23 patients 37% and by less than 50% in 13 21%. The corticosteroid dose remained unchanged in 14 patients and was increased in one. Fifty-one patients were taking pyridostigmine when MyM was started.
The mean time to maximal objective improvement was 26.7 weeks range 8 to 104 weeks.Side effects and adverse effects. MyM was well tolerated in most patients and was discontinued because of side effects in only 5 of 85 patients 6%. The most common reason for discontinuing treatment was gastrointestinal intolerance particularly diarrhea. In all 23 patients 27% had one or more side effects. Serious treatment-associated adverse effects were rare. One patient developed West Nile virus infection while on MyM. A patient with cardiac valve disease developed congestive heart failure and bowel ischemia and died while taking MyM.Discussion. This review of MyM treatment in patients with autoimmune MG indicates that it is safe well tolerated and associated with objective evidence of clinical improvement in approximately threequarters of treated patients. These findings are similar to those reported in previous smaller studies.12 Our data suggest that MyM is effective as an adjunctive and steroid-sparing agent and as the initial or sole form of immunotherapy in MG.
Quantitative assessments of muscle strength and fatigability QMG and MMT were available in most of our patients providing further objective criteria for clinical improvement.Patients who improved with MyM treatment had the onset of objective benefit on average 10.7 weeks from the time of treatment initiation with maximal benefit occurring at a mean of 26 weeks. Thirty-three patients had onset of improvement at 8 weeks or less suggesting that MyM may have a more rapid onset of action compared to conventional immunosuppressants. However the onset of objective improvement ranged from as early as 4 weeks to as late as 40 weeks indicating that it may take up to 10 months to determine that an individual patient is a nonresponder.The main advantage of MyM appears to be its tolerability and safety profile. Only 6% of patients had side effects that led to discontinuation. In comparison toxicity required changing the dose of azathioprine in 35% to 42% of 168 patients taking it for MG and other autoimmune neuromuscular diseases in two published studies.67 The more frequent adverse reactions associated with MyM in our study included nausea vomiting diarrhea and a higher frequency of certain infections.
Except for one patient who had a concurrent autoimmune granulocytopenia no patient developed clinically significant leukopenia.AChR acetylcholine receptor MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America IS immunosuppressants. Five of 19 patients in this group received mycopherolate mofetil 1 MyM as the initial and only immunotherapy. Four of five improved with one achieving MM status. The one patient who did not improve had mild disease Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America class IIa those who improved ranged from class IIa to IVa. Improved denotes a status of PR MM or I.PR pharmacologic remission MM minimal manifestations I improved U unchanged W worsened.November 2 of 2 2003 NEUROLOGY 61 1439Some evidence indicates that long-term use of both azathioprine8 and cyclosporine9 may increase the risk of developing certain malignancies. The long-term safety of MyM is not known but rates of malignancy do not appear to be increased in transplant recipients receiving MyM chronically.10 We have treated one patient with MG for over 45 months without complication.
A trial of mycophenolate mofetil with prednisone as initial immunotherapy in myasthenia gravis. Methods Eighty immunosuppression nave subjects with mild to moderate generalized acetylcholine receptor positive MG at 13 centers were randomized to 2.5 g/day MMF plus 20 mg/day prednisone n 41 or placebo plus 20 mg/day prednisone n 39 and followed in a double-blind fashion for 12 weeks. Subjects over 18 years of age were included if judged to be candidates for immunosuppression excluded were those with thymoma or severe oropharyngeal or respiratory muscle weakness. The primary measure of efficacy was change in the quantitative MG QMG score from baseline to week 12. Study completers could take open-label MMF for an additional 24 weeks while prednisone was reduced to the minimally effective dosage.
fashion for 12 weeks. Subjects over 18 years of age were included if judged to be candidates for immunosuppression excluded were those with thymoma or severe oropharyngeal or respiratory muscle weakness. The primary measure of efficacy was change in the quantitative MG QMG score from baseline to week 12. Study completers could take open-label MMF for an additional. 24 weeks while prednisone was reduced to the minimally effective dosage. Results The mean change in QMG score was similar in the treated  4.4 5.1 and placebo  3.6 5.0 groups p 0.71. The dosage of prednisone was reduced by a similar amount in both groups during the open-label phase. Subjects tolerated the study drug well without unexpected adverse events.Conclusions This study demonstrated no benefit of mycophenolate mofetil MMF with 20 mg/ day prednisone compared to 20 mg/day of prednisone alone after 12 weeks. This may be due to greater than predicted benefit from the prednisone dosage used the short duration of the study or the absence of any benefit of MMF in this population of patients with myasthenia gravis. Neurology 200871394399. GLOSSARY end.
t the acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction cause failure of neuromuscular transmission pathologic fatigue and weakness. Cholinesterase inhibitors such as pyridostigmine improve the efficiency of neuromuscular transmission but do not fully compensate for the reduced function of acetylcholine receptors.Although controlled trials of corticosteroids in MG have not been carried out prednisone or prednisolone in Europe is the initial immunosuppressive treatment currently used in most patients. The optimal dosage and schedule of administration have not been defined the cumulative burden of steroid side effects is high and severe complications are not rare.2 Many patients and physicians resist using high dosages of prednisone and are highly motivated toe-Pub ahead of print on April 23 2008 at www.neurology.org. See the appendix for a list of participating Muscle Study Group members. Supported by grant FD-R-002154-01 from the Orphan Products Development Program of the US FDA F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Roche Grant CEL248 and Aspreva Pharmaceuticals and General Clinical Research Center GCRC grants MO1 RR00034 M01-RR00044 M01-RR-01346 and M01 RR023940 from the National Center for Research Resources NIH. Disclosure Dr.
He is on the speakers program for Athena Diagnostics and has received research support through his institution from Roche Laboratories and Aspreva Pharmaceuticals.Supplemental data at www.neurology.orgAddress correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Donald B end. Sanders Box 3403 Duke University Medical Center Durham NC 27710 Donald.SandersDuke.eduEditorial page 390See also page 400394 Copyright  2008 by AAN Enterprises Inc.reduce the dosage. There is therefore great interest in developing new corticosteroidsparing or steroid-free treatment regimens.Mycophenolate mofetil MMF is a selective inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase IMPDH. This enzyme controls a ratelimiting step in the de novo pathway for synthesis of guanosine nucleotides. MMF impairs proliferation of B- and T-cells selectively because these cells are absolutely dependent on the de novo pathway.
e 20 mg/day provides better control of myasthenic signs and symptoms than prednisone alone in the initial management of MG. An additional goal was to determine if subjects receiving MMF during the initial 12-week double-blind phase were better able to reduce the prednisone dosage during a subsequent 24-week open-label extension phase.METHODS Study design. This was a multicenter randomized double-blind placebo-controlled parallel group trial of MMF and moderate-dosage prednisone 20 mg/day compared to moderate-dosage prednisone alone in subjects with mild to moderate MG. Subjects were followed for 12 weeks on blinded medication and for an additional 24 weeks on open-label MMF.Subjects. Eighty subjects aged 18 years with acquired autoimmune acetylcholine receptor antibody positive generalized MG of mild to moderate severity who had not been previously treated with immunosuppressive drugs other than corticosteroids were recruited at 13 sites in the United States. Subjects had to have had a positive edrophonium test or electrophysiologic evidence of a neuromuscular junction disorder either an abnormal repetitive nerve stimulation study or abnormal single fiber EMG.
Subjects were excluded if they had weakness affecting only ocular or periocular muscles Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA Class I6 severe weakness of oropharyngeal or respiratory muscles MGFA Class IVB or thymoma at time of enrollment or in the past. Subjects couldnot have received corticosteroids plasma exchange or IV immunoglobulin within 90 days of randomization or thymectomy within 12 months of randomization. This project was approved by the Investigational Review Boards of all participating institutions and all patients gave written consent to participate.Interventions. All subjects began 20 mg/day prednisone and were randomized to MMF 2.5 g/day 1250 mg BID or placebo tablets of identical appearance. The prednisone dosage was kept constant during the first 12 weeks. If adverse events that could be due to MMF occurred the dosage of blinded medication could be reduced to a minimum of 1500 mg/day 750 mg BID at the discretion of the site investigator and upon concurrence of the medical monitor. The daily pyridostigmine dosage if any was kept constant for at least 2 weeks before study entry and during the first 12 weeks unless pyridostigmine-related adverse events dictated a change.
The MMF could be increased to a maximum of 3 g/day at the discretion of the site investigator and the dosages of prednisone and pyridostigmine were reduced thereafter if warranted by the clinical response. There was no prespecified rate or frequency of prednisone dosage reduction during the open-label phase.Randomization and enrollment. Subjects were randomly assigned with equal allocation to MMF or placebo. The randomization plan was stratified by center and by severity of disease at time of randomization quantitative MG QMG score 10 or10. Blocking was also included to promote balance in the number of subjects assigned to the two treatments within each stratum. The computer-generated randomization plan was developed by a programmer in the Muscle Study Group MSG Biostatistics Center only this programmer and the central pharmacist at the University of Rochester who packaged and labeled the drug had access to the treatment assignments. To enroll a subject the site coordinator sent a randomization form to the randomization administrator who verified the subjects eligibility assigned the next available randomization number and sent this information to the site coordinator and site pharmacist.Subject assessment.
The QMG score was determined by the evaluator who was blinded to all other assessments of disease activity. The MMT score was determined by the investigator and the MG-ADL score was determined by the coordinatorboth were blinded to the QMG score. The ADL questionnaire was administered weekly by telephone for the first 3 weeks of the double-blind and open-label phases to ensure safety and to detect evidence of initial improvement. Subjects returned for safety evaluations and assessment of MG disease severity at weeks 4 8 12 16 20 28 and 36. If the telephone assessment suggested worsening that was of concern to the subject or the investigator the subject was seen by the investigator earlier than the next scheduled visit. Serum for measurement of acetylcholine receptor antibody AChR-Ab level was drawn at study entry and at weeks 12 and 36 all serum samplesNeurology 71 August 5 2008 395were assayed at the end of the study using the same antigen batch.At the end of the double-blind and open-label phases weeks 12 and 36 the investigator made a global judgment about the subjects response to study treatment based on the subjects symptoms and pyridostigmine dosage and the results of the examination at that visit but bl. inded to the QMG score.
Patients who deteriorated to a degree that other immunosuppressive therapies needed to be initiated were considered treatment failures and withdrawn from the study. At each clinic visit the site investigator completed a questionnaire to ascertain if any of the following criteria for possible treatment failure had been met a progressive weakness of respiratory or limb muscles sufficient to significantly impair activities of daily living b progressive weakness of oropharyngeal muscles sufficient to impair adequate nutrition or constitute a significant risk of aspiration c the subject was unwilling to continue in the study because of progressive or continuing . disability d the subjects physician felt that it would not be in the best interest of the subject to continue in the study due to MG symptoms e forced vital capacity FVC 30% of predicted and f ADL score increase of more than 3 points from baseline. If any ofthese conditions were met the investigator contacted the study medical monitor within 24 hours to discuss the need to withdraw the subject from the study. If the site investigator determined that immediate intervention was needed to assure the subjects safety the subject was withdrawn prior to consultation with the study medical monitor.Safety monitoring.
No interim analyses were performed for early evidence of efficacy.Outcome variables. The primary outcome variable for efficacy was the change in the QMG score from baseline to week 12. Secondary efficacy outcome variables included changes from baseline to week 12 in the myasthenic MMT score MG-ADL score FVC and SF-36v2 Physical and Mental Component Summary scores. Other efficacy outcomes included treatment failure global assessment of response and change in AChR-Ab level from baseline to week 12. Measures of safety included adverse events laboratory test abnormalities and changes in laboratory test results and vital signs.Sample size determination. Based on a previous clinical trial11 the SD of the 12-week change in total QMG score was estimated to be 4.0. A sample size of 56 subjects would provide 80% power to detect a difference of 3 points between the MMF and placebo groups using a t test and a two-tailed 5% significance level. This was inflated to 80 subjects to account for an anticipated 15% attrition rate assuming that attrition rates and mean responses in subjects who withdrew would be comparable between the treatment groups.12Statistical analysis.
The significance of theValues are mean SD unless otherwise indicated. MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MMF mycophenolate mofetil QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis MG MMT myasthenia gravis manual muscle testing MG ADL myasthenia gravis activities of daily living FVC forced vital capacity AChR-Ab acetylcholine receptor antibody.Figure 1 Subject flow and reasons forwithdrawal during the blinded phase.396 Neurology 71 August 5 2008difference between the adjusted group means and a 95% CI for this difference treatment effect was obtained using this model. Similar analyses were performed for the other continuous secondary outcome variables including laboratory test results and vital signs. Changes from baseline to other time points were examined descriptively. A Wilcoxon rank sum test was used to compare the treatment groups with regard to the global assessment of response to study treatment. Adverse events were assessed descriptively where warranted two-tailed Fisher exact tests were performed to compare groups with regard to the incidence of particular adverse events and laboratory test abnormalities.
For subjects who withdrew from the trial data from the last available visit were carried forward up through week 12 for purposes of statistical analysis of the continuous efficacy outcomes. For the global assessment of response to study treatment subjects who withdrew from the trial were considered to be in the worse category for purposes of analysis. Sensitivity analyses e.g. using other methods of imputation or including onlysubjects who completed 12 weeks of follow-up revealed no major impact of the imputation strategy on the results. No data imputation was performed for the analysis of the data from the open-label phase.RESULTS Eighty subjects were enrolled 33 women and 47 men age 56.2 18.2 range 2089. The first patient enrolled in December 2002 the last patient completed the blinded phase in January 2006 and completed the open-label phase in July 2006. Forty-one subjects were randomized to the MMF group and 39 to placebo. There were no major differences between the baseline characteristics of the two treatment groups table 1.Blinded phase. Seventy subjects 87.5% successfully completed the blinded phase figure 1. Ten subjects were withdrawn during the 12-week blinded phase four on MMF and six on placebo table e-1 on the Neurology  Web site at www.neurology.org.
One subject on MMF withdrew at the subjects request and one on placebo withdrew at the physicians request. Two subjects on placebo had MG progression that did not require alternative therapy or withdrawal.Although the total QMG score improved over time in both treatment groups the extent of improvement in the MMF group was similar to that in the placebo group at week 12 treatment effect 0.37 95% CI 2.36 to 1.61 p 0.71 figure 2. The treatment groups did not significantly differ with respect to change over time in any of the secondary outcome variables for efficacy including change in AChR-Ab level table 2. The global assessment of response to study treatment also reflectedVertical bars indicate one SEM.Values are mean SD. Treatment effect is the difference in mean change between the mycophenolate mofetil group and the placebo group adjusted for center and the baseline value of the outcome variable in an analysis of covariance model. MMF mycophenolate mofetil QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis MMT manual muscle testing MG ADL myasthenia gravis activities of daily living AChR-Ab acetylcholine receptor antibody.Neurology 71 August 5 2008 397similar improvement in both treatment groups p 0.77 table e-2.Open-label phase.
Two subjects were withdrawn during this phase of the study one because of MG progression that required alternative therapy and another who died from cardiac and renal failure. The prednisone dosage by time curves figure e-1 and the mean prednisone dosage at week 36 MMF 10.9 12.2 mg/day n 33 placebo 8.1 8.7 mg/day n 28 p 0.26 were similar for subjects from both treatment groups of the blinded phase thus there was no apparent greater steroid-sparing effect in subjects who had received MMF during the initial 12 weeks. The QMG score during the open-label phase was not different between patients in the two arms figure e-2.The frequencies of some adverse events appeared to be somewhat higher in the MMF-treated group than in the placebo group but none of the differences reached significance table 3. Details of adverse events and compliance can be found in the appendix.DISCUSSION There was no difference in the mean change in QMG total score over 12 weeks between subjects treated with MMF with prednisone and subjects treated with prednisone alone. Thus this study indicates that MMF in combination with prednisone does not provide better control than prednisone alone during the first 12 weeks of treatment in patients with mild to moderate generalized MG.
MMF 2.5 g/day in combination with prednisone 20 mg/day was found to be well tolerated and there were no group differences in the mean changes from baseline to week 12 in vital signs or any of the monitoring laboratory test results.A major finding of this study was the unexpectedly high frequency of responders in both treatment groups 85% of subjects in the MMF group and 77% in the placebo group were judged by the investigator to have had improvement 37% in the MMF group and 39% in the placebo gr. oup were considered to have shown marked improvement. These results can be interpreted as showing that MMF has no additional benefit over prednisone therapy alone in the treatment of MG. However the results could also reflect a better-than-expected response of MG to 20 mg/day prednisone or selection of subjects with relatively mild and immunoresponsive MG. Selection for such subjects may have occurred at the level of referral for entry into the study if the possibility of randomization to a lower dosage of prednisone constituted in the opinion of referring physicians an unacceptable risk for patients with newly diagnosed MG.
In published studies suggesting MMF benefit in MG most of the patients had previously been treated with corticosteroids other immunosuppressants orMMF mycophenolate mofetil MG myasthenia gravis.398 Neurology 71 August 5 2008both. Subjects in this study had not previously received non-corticosteroid immunosuppressants and had not received corticosteroids in the 90 days prior to study entry. The treatment effects in both groups presumably reflect at least in part the beneficial effects of 20 mg/ day prednisone. If the anti-myasthenic effects of prednisone begin earlier than those of MMF this could mask the beneficial effects of MMF in a short term study such as this. Alternatively previous uncontrolled studies and case series may have overestimated the antimyasthenic efficacy of MMF.A caveat of the present study is the relatively short interval of blinded treatment. Of note no trend for divergence between the placebo and MMF groups was evident until after week 4 figures 2 and e-2.
For example in a retrospective review of 85 patients treated with MMF the mean time to first improvement was 10.8 weeks range 4 to 40 weeks and the mean time to maximal improvement was 26.7 weeks range 8 to 104 weeks.13 In another retrospective review of 32 MG patients mean onset of improvement was 4.8 months range 2 to 12 months.4 Treatment duration of greater than 12 weeks may be necessary to demonstrate benefit from MMF further studies would be needed to adequately address this issue. ACKNOWLEDGMENT. The authors thank the Muscle Study Group Executive Committee Chair Robert Griggs MD Rochester NY and the study Safety Monitoring Committee Chair Vinay Chaudhry MD Baltimore MD James F. Howard MD Chapel Hill NC and David Oakes PhD Rochester NY for contributions. APPENDIX end. Muscle Study Group MSG Principal Investigator Donald B. Sanders MD Durham NC Steering Committee Michael McDermott PhD Charles Thornton MD Rabi Tawil MD Rochester NY Richard J. Barohn MD Kansas City KS.
Clinical Evaluators Deborah Myers BS PT San Antonio TX Bernadette Lipscomb RN MSN Durham NC Rhonda McLin PTA Dallas TX Laura Herbelin BS Kansas City KS WendyKing BA PT Columbus OH Mark Tekrony MD Charlottesville VA Shree Pandya MS PT Rochester NY Michael Harper MD Rochester MN Rose Vallines New York NY Julie Rowin MD Chicago IL Lisa Smith CCRP Jacksonville FL Merideth Donlan DPT Boston MA Nancy Ivy MS PT Salt Lake City UT. Clinical Coordinators Pamela Kittrell MSN RN San Antonio TX Karen White R. NCS.T Durham NC Cindy Wynne-Jones RN Dallas TX Victoria Watts RN Kansas City KS Karen Downing CCRC Columbus OH Cindy Fischer CCRC Charlottesville VA Janet Fischer RN Rochester MN Joan Bratton BA CCRC New York NY Judy Richman RN BSN Chicago IL Yvonne Douglas CCRP Jacksonville FL Kristi McIntosh MPH Boston MA Summer Davis BS Salt Lake City UT. Medical Monitor Wayne Massey MD Durham NC. MSG Coordination Center Rochester NY Data Management Nuran Dilek MS William Martens BS Study Coordination Christine Annis BS CCRC. MSG Biostatistics Center Rochester NY Joanne Janciuras AS.Received July 27 2007. Accepted in final form December 28 2007. Severe Skin Reaction Related to Mycophenolate Mofetil for Myasthenia Gravis.
MM is a novel and potent immunosuppressive agent that blocks purine synthesis thus selectively inhibiting T and B lymphocyte proliferation. Favorable results in refractory and steroid-dependent MG patients have been reported in open-label studies revealing a rapid onset of action and a safe side effect profile. Drug eruption due to toxicity or immune-mediated damage has not been reported in association with MM. A 32-year-old man with generalized seropositive MG with a highly malignant clinical course was admitted to the authors department due to an acute papulosquamous psoriatic-like skin eruption 1 month following treatment initiation with MM. Skin biopsy revealed sparse perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes intermingled with few eosinophils. Treatment with high-dose steroids together with discontinuation of MM induced a gradual improvement with complete resolution of the symptoms 2 months later. A severe and fulminant skin eruption in association with MM treatment is described for the first time in the literature. The histopathologic diagnosis of drug eruption is supported by the resolution of symptoms following discontinuation of MM.
nolate mofetilMM in a patient with myasthenia gravis MG. MM is a novel and potent immunosuppressive agent that blocks purine synthesis thus selectively inhibiting T and B lymphocyte proliferation.Favorable results in refractory and steroid-dependent MG patients have been reported in open-label studies revealing a rapid onset of action and a safe side effect profile. Drug eruption due to toxicity orimmune-mediated damage has not been reported in association with MM. A 32-year-old man with generalized seropositive MG with a highly malignant clinical course was admitted to the authors department due to an acute papulosquamous psoriatic-like skin eruption1 month following treatment initiation with MM. Skin biopsy revealed sparse perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes intermingled with few eosinophils. Treatment with high-dose steroids together withdiscontinuation of MM induced a gradual improvement with complete resolution of the symptoms 2 months later. A severe and fulminant skin eruption in association with MM treatment is de-scribed for the first time in the literature. The histopathologic diagnosis of drug eruption is supported by the resolution of symptoms following discontinuation of MM.
Its principle mechanism relates to blocking purine synthesis by inhibiting the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of guanosine nucleotides. T and B lymphocytes are more dependent on this pathway therefore MM selectively inhibits their proliferation while leaving other cell lines intact. Other mechanisms by which MM exerts its immunosuppressive effects include induction of apoptosis of activated T lymphocytes suppression of the expression ofadhesion molecules and suppression of the production of the inducible form of NO thus reducing tissue damage mediated by nitrites.1 MM is widely used in transplantation medicine because it has proved effective in preventing organ rejection. It is also increasingly used for the treatment of immunemediated diseases in general and neuromuscular diseases in particular.2 Favorable results of long-term use of MM in patients with myasthenia gravis MG have been reported in a few case reports34 and in an open-label study.5 In those studies MM appeared to be effective in the treatment of refractory and steroid-dependent MG. MM revealed a rapid onset of action and a safe side effect profile. Adverse reactions reported with MM include diarrhea leukopenia sepsis vomiting and a higher frequency of certain types of infections.
Drug eruption due to toxicity or immune-mediated damage has not been reported in association with MM. We report the development of a papulosquamous psoriaticlike skin eruption following the introduction of MM in a 32-year-old man with MG. CASE REPORT. A 32-year-old man with generalized seropositive MG since theage of 19 was admitted through the ER in our department due to an acute papulosquamous psoriaticlike skin eruption. Diagnosis of MG was based on positive edrophonium Tensilon test high AchR Abs titers and decrementing response on EMG. During previous years the patients clinical course of MG was highly malignant with several episodes of respiratory insufficiency and severe bulbar involvement requiring recurrent hospitalizations and mechanical ventilation for severe myasthenic crisis. He received various immunosuppressants including corticosteroids thymectomy twice initially pathology revealed a hyperplastic thymus while 9 years later an invasive thymoma azathioprine plasma exchange intravenous immuneglobulin and cyclosporine. Cyclosporine in combination with steroids induced a good clinical response but caused serious side effects hypertension NIDDM and obesity requiring treatment modification.
Marked improvement was evident after 2 months. The patient reported a decrease in steroid and cyclosporine dose and significant clinical improvement he was even able to chew gum. About a month after treatment initiation areas of skin eruption appeared first on the back and then on the face and limbs progressing to a fulminant skin rash 3 months later covering almost the entire body. The differential diagnosis included papulosquamous disease with psoriatic elements versus drug eruption mimicking GVHD. Skin biopsy revealed From the Department of Neurology The Agnes Ginges Center for Human Neurogenetics and the Department of Dermatology Hadassah University Hospital and the Hebrew UniversityHadassah Medical School Jerusalem Israel. Reprints Netta Levin MD Department of Neurology Hadassah University Hospital Jerusalem 91120 Israel e-mail imbarlnetvision.net.il. Copyright 2005 by Lippincott Williams  Wilkins152 Clin Neuropharmacol Volume 28 Number 3 May - June 2005hyperkeratosis irregular acanthocytosis spongiosis apoptotic epidermal cells and sparse perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes intermingled with few eosinophils in the upper dermis Fig. 1 end.
DISCUSSION. To our knowledge severe and fulminant skin eruptionhas not been reported in the literature in association with MM treatment. Although the histopathologic diagnosis was drug eruption the presence of lymphocytic infiltrations as well as the clinical appearance and the distribution of lesions simulating a psoriaticlike dermatitis raise the possibility of an immune-mediated event. The resolution of symptoms following discontinuation of MM supports the possibility of drugrelated toxicity. However the simultaneous administration of high-dose steroids obscures the pathogenic mechanism since it may represent an immune-mediated rash. Paradoxic development of autoimmune syndromes including SLE followingadministration of immunosuppressive medications like cyclosporine or after thymectomy exist in the literature.67 The presumed mechanism in these cases is suggested to be a disturbance in the balance between suppressor/cytotoxic T cells and B cells. These may expand initially following the initiation of a cytotoxic drug induction period or during the period of reconstitution of the immune cells recovery of suppressed lymphocytes with reactive overshooting.
The disturbed immunologic milieu due to previous cytotoxic treatments and/or thymectomy may have also contributed to the development of an immune-mediated disease involving the skin or other organs. Indeed during the various immunosuppressive treatments our patient developed anti-DNA antibodies at low titers which indicate the existence of a subclinical SLE-like disease. Whatever the mechanism such a fulminant skin reaction should raise our awareness in patients with MG who are candidates for MM treatment. ACKNOWLEDGMENT. This work was supported by the Zeev Aram Grant. Effectiveness of sugammadex versus neostigmine on restoration of neuromuscular function in surgical patients with myasthenia gravis undergoing rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade a systematic review protocol. R esidual neuromuscular blockade or postoperative residual curarization PORC related to general anesthesia has been recognized as a potential problem for decades. Anesthesia practice utilizes neuromuscular blockade agents NMBA to establish muscle relaxation in patients undergoing general anesthesia. Muscle relaxation facilitates endotracheal intubation ensures patient immobility and improves surgical exposure. The administration of NMBA necessitates the use of neuromuscular monitoring and NMBA reversal.
However if incomplete recovery of neuromuscular blockade occurs due to inadequate or inappropriate pharmacologic reversal PORC can ensue and cause significant and potentially detrimental postoperative outcomes. Current literature indicates that the estimated incidence of PORC is 40% in post-anesthesia care units. The conventional method for monitoring recovery from neuromuscular blockade is the use of a peripheral nerve stimulator. The stimulator is. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW PROTOCOL. Effectiveness of sugammadex. versus neostigmine on restoration of neuromuscular function in surgical patients with myasthenia gravis undergoing rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade a systematic review protocolElizabeth Yellott12 Jennifer Badeaux12 Jennifer Martin12 Julie H. Schiavo121Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center New Orleans USA 2The Louisiana Center for Promotion of Optimal Health Outcomes a Joanna Briggs Institute Center of ExcellenceReview question/objective The objective of this systematic review is to identify the effectiveness of sugammadex versus neostigmine on the reversal of rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade in surgical patients with myasthenia gravis undergoing general anesthesia.Keywords myasthenia gravis neostigmine postopera.
Introduction. R esidual neuromuscular blockade or postopera-tive residual curarization PORC related to general anesthesia has been recognized as a potential problem for decades. Anesthesia practice utilizes neuromuscular blockade agents NMBA to establish muscle relaxation in patients undergoing general anesthesia. Muscle relaxation facilitates endotracheal intubation ensures patient immobility and improves surgical exposure.1 The administration of NMBA necessitates the use of neuromuscular monitoring and NMBA reversal. This process is to ensure the patient has regained complete neuromuscular function and is not at risk for PORC. However if incomplete recovery of neuromuscular blockade occurs due to inadequate or inappropriate pharmacologic reversal PORC can ensue and cause significant and potentially detrimental postoperative outcomes.
Unauthorizeplaced at the adductor pollicis muscle or orbicularis oculi muscle where a train-of-four TOF measurement is observed four electrical stimuli are delivered separated by 0.5-second intervals.5 Qualitative measurement of these electrical pulses result in twitches which are subjectively measured by tactile or visual assessment. The level of neuromuscular recovery is discerned based upon the ratio of the fourth twitch to the first twitch T4/T1 when nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers are used.5 Quantitative nerve monitoring provides a more accurate and objective measurement of the degree of neuromuscular blockade recovery.6 Quantitative monitoring is performed with portable devices such as the TOF Watch1 which measures TOF twitch height amplitude to calculate a numerical TOF ratio. If no twitch response occurs i.e.
covery of muscles of the upper airway and larynx as swallowing and airway protection are affected by small2018 THE JOANNA BRIGGS INSTITUTE 1922d reproduction of this article is prohibited.amounts of residual neuromuscular blockade.3 Impaired respiratory efforts secondary to PORC is a primary concern for anesthesia providers. The postoperative outcomes of PORC result in critical respiratory events 0.86.9% post-extubation.3 These adverse events include upper airway obstruction hypoxia hypoxemia signs of respiratory failure inability to breathe deeply suspicion of postextubation pneumonia and reintubation.3Traditional methods of neuromuscular blockade reversal induced by non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockers such as rocuronium include administration of an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor to reverse the effect on the bl. ocked muscles. Neostigmine is a commonly used acetylcholinesterase inhibitor administered to pharmacologically reverse the effects of neuromuscular blockers.
This systemic increase in acetylcholine level can lead to side effects such as bradycardia hypotension arrhythmias bronchoconstriction hypersalivation diarrhea and increased gastric secretions.37 Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors require the adjuvant administration of an antimuscarinic agent to prevent these parasympathetic side effects. Glycopyrrolate is the antimuscarinic drug administered concurrently with neostigmine to prevent parasympathetic effects.Patients with myasthenia gravis are at increased risk of PORC because of existing neuromuscular transmission and functioning deficits. Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune disease that causes antibodies to target and destroy acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction. This decrease in the number of functioning acetylcholine receptors results in muscle fatigue and variable weakness.8 Implications for general anesthesia include characteristic symptoms of myasthenia gravis such as airway management dysphagia dysarthria aspiration pneumonia due to nasopharyngeal muscular weakness and difficulty in expelling airway secretions.8JBI Database of Systematic Reviews and Implementation Reports2018 Joanna Briggs Institute.
At baseline patients with myasthenia gravis exhibit muscle weakness that is often potentiated under general anesthesia. This may require additional time for recovery and to regain spontaneous respiratory efforts.8 Anesthesia providers are often hesitant to administer NMBA to patients presenting with myasthenia gravis because of the residual effects of prolonged paralysis. However when an immobile surgical field is required for patients with myasthenia gravis undergoing general anesthesia NMBA should be administered to optimize surgical conditions. Patients with myasthenia gravis usually take medications that inhibit acetylcholinesterase. Administration of an additional acetylcholinesterase inhibitor such as neostigmine to reverse the neuromuscular blockade may delay recovery. This may result in an inconstant recovery period of spontaneous respiratory effort given the limited additional potential.8In 2015 the Food and Drug Administration FDA approved the use of sugammadex in the United States however it has been available for use in Europe since 2008.3 Sugammadex is a modified gamma-cyclodextrin the first of a new class of drugs called selective relaxant binding agents with a particularly high affinity for rocuronium.9 This medication offers an alternate mechanism of .
Its mechanism of action is to selectively encapsulate NMBA e.g. rocuronium vecuronium pancuronium that results in an essentially permanent tight water-soluble inclusion complex that prevents further attachment of the neuromuscular blocking drug to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.9 The rapid encapsulation of sugammadex to the steroidal NMBA occurs in a 11 ratio and creates a concentration gradient that promotes the extraction of additional neuromuscular blocker molecules from the nicotinic motor junction into the plasma compartment to permit their encapsula. tion as well.9Sugammadex offers two primary advances over traditional reversal methods its ability to induce a rapid speed of skeletal muscle recovery and the lack of muscarinic side effects associated with its administration.3 Prescribing information states that twitch response monitoring is indicated to2018 THE JOANNA BRIGGS INSTITUTE 1923d reproduction of this article is prohibited.determine timing and dosage of sugammadex following rocuronium or vecuronium administration.10 A dose of 2 mg/kg.
function within three minutes of its administration.3 Access to sugammadex allows the anesthesia provider to establish any level of neuromuscular blockade including a profound block during any point of surgical exposure.Sugammadex administration offers an effective treatment option in patients with myasthenia gravis. This population often has accompanying co-existing comorbidities such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with a reduced vital capacity and is likely to remain intubated postoperatively.7 Furthermore avoidance of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors as the method of reversal would eliminate the potential for drug-drug interaction with orally administered doses of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors which may cause cholinergic crisis.9The most often utilized pharmacological reversal agents available . today are sugammadex and neostigmine for reversal of neuromuscular blockade. The practice standard for anesthesia providers states when neuromuscular blocking agents are administered monitor neuromuscular response to assess depth of blockade and degree of recovery.11p.2 A current systematic review by Abad-Gurumeta et al.12 reviewed the effects of sugammadex with neostigmine for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade.
Therefore a systematic review of the effectiveness of sugammadex versus neostigmine in surgical patients with myasthenia gravis is necessary. The time of pharmacological reversal to return of baseline neuromuscular function and time to extubation are important clinical factors to considerJBI Database of Systematic Reviews and Implementation Reports2018 Joanna Briggs Institute. Unauthorizewhen optimizing this population for successful post-anesthetic recovery.A preliminary search of JBI Database of Systematic Reviews and Implementation Reports Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews PROSPERO and MEDLINE was performed and revealed that there were no systematic reviews available examining the effectiveness of sugammadex versus neostigmine on restoration of neuromuscular function in surgical patients with myasthenia gravis undergoing rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block. ade. end. Inclusion criteria. end. Participants. This review will consider studies that include adult surgical patients 18 years and over with myasthenia gravis undergoing rocuronium-induced general anesthesia requiring tracheal intubation. The use of sugammadex in people under 17 years is not FDA approved in the United States and therefore this population will not be included in this review.
Qualitative neuromuscular monitoring techniques will be excluded as these results may undergo subjective assessment and increase the risk of potential bias. Intervention. This review will consider studies that evaluate the effectiveness of sugammadex administration for reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium. This review will consider studies that utilize the suggested dose of sugammadex which should range from 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg depending on twitch response or TOF stimulation or 16 mg/kg if a clinical need of neuromuscular blockade reversal is warranted as soon as three minutes after 1.2 mg/kg of rocuronium administration. The review will consider studies that utilize quantitative TOF monitoring devices such as the TOF Watch1 to determine depth of neuromuscular blockade. Comparator. This review will compare studies that compare the intervention to neostigmine administration for reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium in patients with myasthenia gravis2018 THE JOANNA BRIGGS INSTITUTE 1924d reproduction of this article is prohibited.undergoing general anesthesia. The dosage of neostigmine administration should range from 0.03 mg/ kg to 0.07 mg/kg depending on TOF stimulation in conjunction with an anticholinergic agent atropine or glycopyrrolate.
Outcomes end. This review will consider studies that include the following outcomes time of sugammadex versus neostigmine administration to restoration of neuromuscular function defined as a TOF ratio of 0.9 or return of TOF to baseline. It will also include time of sugammadex versus neostigmine administration to removal of the endotracheal tube and the need for emergent reintubation following sugammadex versus neostigmine administration in the post-anesthesia care phase. Any drug-related adverse events will be reported and included where identified. Types of studies. This review will consider both experimental and quasi-experimental study designs including randomized controlled trials non-randomized controlled trials before and after studies and interrupted time-series studies. In addition analytical observational studies including prospective and retrospective cohort studies case-control studies and analytical cross-sectional studies will be considered for inclusion. This review will also consider descriptive observational study designs including case series individual case reports and descriptive cross-sectional studies for inclusion. Methods end. end. Search strategy. The search strategy will aim to find both published and unpublished studies.
This informed the development of a search strategy which will be tailored for each information source. A research librarian aided in the development of the search strategy. The full search strategy for MEDLINE is detailed in Appendix I. The reference list of all studies selected for critical appraisal will be screened for additional studies. Studies publishedJBI Database of Systematic Reviews and Implementation Reports2018 Joanna Briggs Institute. Unauthorizein English will be included. Studies published after July 2008 will be included as sugammadex was first approved for use throughout the European Union on this date.13. Information sources. The databases to be searched include Ovid MEDLINE CINAHL Scopus Cochrane Library and Embase.The search for unpublished studies will include ProQuest Dissertations and Theses PQDT ProQuest Nursing and Allied Health Database Google Scholar merck.com/clinical-trials and ClinicalTrials.gov. Study selection. Following the search all identified citations will be collated and uploaded into RefWorks ProQuest LLC Ann Arbor USA and duplicates removed. Titles and abstracts will then be screened by two independent reviewers for assessment against the inclusion criteria for the review.
The full text of selected studies will be retrieved and assessed in detail against the inclusion criteria. Full text studies that do not meet the inclusion criteria will be excluded and reasons for exclusion will be provided in an appendix in the final systematic review report. Included studies will undergo a process of critical appraisal. The results of the search will be reported in full in the final report and presented in a PRISMA flow diagram. Any disagreements that arise between the reviewers will be resolved through discussion or with a third reviewer. Assessment of methodological quality. Selected studies will be critically appraised by two independent reviewers at the study level for methodological quality in the review using the standardized critical appraisal instruments from JBI SUMARI.14 Any disagreements that arise will be resolved through discussion or with a third reviewer.Following critical appraisal studies that do not meet a certain quality threshold will be excluded.2018 THE JOANNA BRIGGS INSTITUTE 1925d reproduction of this article is prohibited. Data extraction.
Any disagreements that arise between the reviewers will be resolved through discussion or with a third reviewer. Authors of papers will be contacted to request missing or additional data where required. Data synthesis. Quantitative data will where possible be pooled in statistical meta-analysis using JBI SUMARI.14 Effect sizes will be expressed as either odds ratios for dichotomous data and weighted or standardized mean differences for continuous data and their 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for analysis. Heterogeneity will be assessed statistically using the standard chi-squared and I squared tests. The choice of model random or fixed effects and method for meta-analysis will be based on the guidance by Tufunaru et al. 2015.15Subgroup analyses may be explored based on different study designs included in this review. Sensitivity analyses will be conducted to test decisions made regarding the effects of sugammadex on restoration of neuromuscular function. Where statistical pooling is not possible the findings will be presented in narrative form including tables and figures to aid in data presentation where appropriate.A funnel plot will be generated to assess publication bias if there are 10 or more studies included in a meta-analysis.
Assessing certainty in the findings. A Summary of Findings will be created using GRADEPro GDT software McMaster University ON Canada. The Grading of Recommendations Assessment Development and Evaluation GRADE approach for grading the quality of evidence will be followed. The Summary of Findings will present the following information where appropriate absolute risks for treatment and control estimates of relative risk and a ranking of the quality of theJBI Database of Systematic Reviews and Implementation Reports2018 Joanna Briggs Institute. Unauthorizeevidence based on study limitations risk of bias indirectness inconsistency imprecision and publication bias.The following outcomes will be included in the Summary of Findings time of sugammadex administration to restoration of TOF ratio time of sugammadex administration to removal of the endotracheal tube and need for emergent re-intubation following sugammadex administration in the post-anesthesia care phase. Acknowledgements. This review contributes to the Doctor of Nursing Practice degree award for EY. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease that causes muscle weakness through autoantibodies targeted at postsynaptic acetylcholine 12 cmH20. The patient was diagnosed with MG in 2002 had a receptors AchR.
Although it is a relatively rare disease it is not uncommon for an emergency medicine physician to have treated patients with MG. Mainstay of therapy usually includes acetylcholinesterase inhibitors steroids immunosuppressive therapy and possible thymectomy. In certain acute situations therapies targeting the autoantibodies are used.We present a case of a patient with MG who was given an IV dose of neostigmine. P H A R M / T O X C O R N E ROPERATING ROOMDante Gra Memorial H The WoodlAfton McN Hermann T The WoodlFor correspo Park Drive E-mail DanJ Emerg Nu 0099-1767Copyright  All rights re https//doi.o94 JOUNEOSTIGMINE NOT ONLY FOR THEAuthors Dante Gravino PharmD BCPS and Afton McNierney-Moore DO The Woodlands TXSection Editor Allison A. Muller PharmD D.ABATEarn Up to 6.5 CE Hours. See page 101.Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune diseasethat causes muscle weakness through autoanti-bodies targeted at postsynaptic acetylcholine12cmH20. The patient was diagnosed with MG in 2002 had areceptors AchR. It is thought that there are at least 60000 Americans living with the disease today.3 Although it is a relatively rare disease it is not uncommon for an emergency medicine physician to have treated patients with MG.
In certain acute situations therapies targeting the autoantibodies are used.2We present a case of a patient with MG who was given an IV dose of neostigmine. Case Study. An 83-year-old man presented to the emergency department complaining of shortness of breath trouble swallowing slurred speech and weakness in his legs. The patient was transported into the emergency department by wheelchair accompanied by his daughter. The daughter reported that the patient has had longstanding MG and has been hospitalized in the past for management of the disease. She also reported that the patients neurologist stopped his chronic prednisone 3 days before and he has not been able to take anything orally for the past 36 hours. The patients physical examination was significant for bilateral ptosis dysphagia dysarthria pedal numbness and a colostomy bag.His vital signs and laboratory results were unremarkable except for a heart rate HR of 111vino is Clinical Pharmacy SpecialistEmergency Medicine ermann The Woodlands Hospital Department of Pharmacy ands TX.ierney-Moore is Emergency Department Physician Memorial he Woodlands Hospital Department of Emergency Medicine ands TX.ndence write Dante Gravino PharmD BCPS 4400 Coll.
Published by Elsevier Inc. served end. rg/10.1016/j.jen.2017.09.004RNAL OF EMERGENCY NURSINGbeats/min and hemoglobin of 13.8 g/dL. Chest x-ray was nonsignificant and his negative inspiratory force was 20 to 50thymectomy in 2012 and at presentation was taking pyridostigmine 60 mg 3 times a day. He was previously on mycophenolate mofetil until he developed a colonic perforation that required a colostomy and his daily prednisone 20 mg was recently stopped. He was hospitalized 1 month earlier and diagnosed with an MG exacerbation and was given multiple cycles of plasma exchange.During the initial part of his ED visit he was nonverbal but could communicate. He failed his first dysphagia screening but was otherwise comfortable. The ED physician ordered one liter of IV fluid and contacted the on-call neurologist who recommended a dose of immediate-release pyridostigmine 90 mg. As he failed his dysphagia screening a nasogastric NG tube was to be inserted for administration of the drug.
The medication was administered over 1 minute. After the medication was administered the patient spoke clearly and much louder. He stated that he would like to try to take his oral medications. The medical team decided to wait 2 minutes after the medication was given and then readminister the dysphagia screening which he passed. The patient was then given pyridostigmine 90 mg and admitted to the hospital without an NG tube. During the administration of the neostigmine atropine was available at bedside and the patient was connected to a defibrillator.The patients vital signs during the administration of neostigmine until he left the emergency department were HR 96 to 103 beats/min systolic blood pressure 114 to 144mmHg diastolic blood pressure 53 to 88 mmHg mean arterial pressure 76 to109mmHg andoxygen saturationon roomairwas94%.At the request of the admitting team the patient was placed in an intermediate step-down. unit end. During his 12-hour hospital admission the patient ate and spoke at his baseline.
When the autoantibodies attach to the AchR at the neuromuscular junction the patient can feel increased muscle weakness and fatigability.2 As the disease progresses the muscle weakness usually becomes generalized in the majority of patients.1 The most recent guideline for the management of MG recommends initial therapy with an oral acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and if the disease progresses adding on drugs that can suppress immune function eg mycophenolate azathioprine and/or steroids.2A minori. ty of patients will develop what is known as myasthenic crisis requiring mechanical ventilation and they usually need therapy targeted at the autoantibodies eg IVIG plasma exchange that are causing the weakness. These targeted therapies only offer temporary relief from weakness.24The thymus is a primary lymphoid organ located behind the breastbone that is integral in the maturation of the immune system.5 The organ is thought to play a role in the development and progression of MG.5 If patients are selected for thymectomy the procedure will be performed when the patient is stable owing to the long delay in effect.25Pharmacology of Acetylcholinesterase InhibitorsEndogenous acetylcholinesterase is present . at all cholinergic junctions.
action of approximately 20 to 30 minutes68 whereas the oral pharmacologic properties of pyridostigmine include an onset of approximately 30 to 60 minutes and a duration of action of approximately 360 minutes.69 Although neostigmine has a similar structure to pyridostigmine6 it is not available in an oral formulation in the United States.10 Physostigmine the more familiar acetylcholinesterase inhibitor in the emergency department was not available at the time of the patient case.January 2018 VOL. UME 44  ISSUE 1Cholinergic CrisisIf too much acetylcholinesterase inhibition occurs in a patient with MG a cholinergic crisis can transpire. A cholinergic crisis can appear to be similar to a myasthenic crisis as they both can have manifestations of muscle weakness and require mechanical ventilation.
until 2014.10 The usual oral treatment dose was 15 to 30 mg every 2 to 4 hours.11 When using neostigmine in the OR for reversal of neuromuscular blockade the IV dose can vary from 2 to 5 mg.11 Our patient received a single dose of 0.25 mg of IV neostigmine. This dose was based on understanding the bioavailability of neostigmine and the usual starting dose of the oral product.1112. Conclusion. Patients with MG can present in various stages of the disease. We presented an uncommon case in which we were fairly certain that our patients MG exacerbation was caused by insufficient acetylcholinesterase inhibition. Neostigmine because of its short duration of action and lack of oral availability is unusual for treatment of MG but benefited our patient. Neostigmine allowed us to bridge the patient to his oral medications prevent more invasive measures and possibly accelerate his discharge from the hospital. Local use of dexamethasone in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. Background At present patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG are typically treated with systemic drugs. We investigated the use of dexamethasone injected in the peribulbar region or extraocular muscle to treat patients with OMG.
The severity of diplopia blepharoptosis eye position and eye movement were evaluated before and after treatment. The duration of follow-up time was 6 months. Results Among the 14 patients with OMG who received this treatment mean age was 38.7  29.7 years. After treatment symptoms were relieved in 12 patients 85.7% 1 patient 7.1% had partial response to treatment and 1 patient 7.1% had no response. Two patients 14.2% experienced symptom recurrence during the follow-up period. Conclusions Dexamethasone peribulbar or extraocular muscle injection is effective in the treatment of patients with OMG and may replace systemic drug therapy. Trial registration Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR2000038863 October 7 2020.Retrospectively registered. Background At present patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG are typically treated with systemic drugs. We investigated the use of dexamethasone injected in the peribulbar region or extraocular muscle to treat patients with OMG.Methods Patients with OMG were given dexamethasone via peribulbar injection or direct injection into the main paralyzed extraocular muscles once a week for 46 weeks. The severity of diplopia blepharoptosis eye position and eye movement were evaluated before and after treatment.
After treatment symptoms were relieved in 12 patients 85.7% 1 patient 7.1% had partial response to treatment and 1 patient 7.1% had no response. Two patients 14.2% experienced symptom recurrence during the follow-up period.Conclusions Dexamethasone peribulbar or extraocular muscle injection is effective in the treatment of patients with OMG and may replace systemic drug therapy.Trial registration Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR2000038863 October 7 2020.Retrospectively registered.Keywords Ocular myasthenia gravis Strabismus Corticosteroids Dexamethasone Local injection. Background. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease that mainly involves acetylcholine receptors AchR on the postsynaptic membrane at the neuromuscular junction. The annual incidence of MG is reported to range from 3 to 30 per million per year with prevalence of approximately 150300 per million 13. About 60% MG known as simple OMG 35. This proportion is higher among children reaching 71 to 93% 5 6. In the past even patients with OMG in whom symptoms were limited to the eyes were treated with systemic drugs including acetylcholinesterase inhibitors corticosteroids immunosuppressants immunomodulating agents and recently vascular growth factor inhibitors 79.
Few patients underwent thymectomy or other types of surgery 10. But any type of systemic medication is likely to induce adverse reactions. Ophthalmologists seeking to treat autoimmune oculardiseases used various methods for drug delivery including subconjunctival hemispheric and retrobulbar injections as well as intravitreal administration and achieved good therapeutic effects. These diseases include simple ocular inflammation and ocular inflammation caused by systemic disease 11. Local treatment with topical corticosteroids has been recommended as first-line treatment for juvenile idiopathic arthritis JIA-associated uveitis when the disease is mild and patients can be weaned relatively quickly off of steroid therapy 12 13. The topical injection of hormone drugs such as triamcinolone The Authors. 2020 Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License which permits use sharing adaptation distribution and reproduction in any medium or format as long as you give appropriate credit to the original authors and the source provide a link to the Creative Commons licence and indicate if changes were made.
If material is not included in the articles Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence visit http//creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver http//creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Correspondence 13995559689163.com Department of Strabismus and Pediatric Ophthalmology Wuhan Aier Eye Hospital Hanyang Wuhan 430020 Chinaacetonide or dexamethasone also has been used successfully for the treatment of thyroid-related ophthalmopathy 14 15. Alkawas et al. compared the efficacy of peribulbar triamcinolone acetonide to oral prednisone in the treatment of thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy. In the group treated orally the mean exophthalmometry measurement decreased from 23  1.86 mm before treatment to 19.08  1.16 mm after treatment. However in the group that received peribulbar injections mean exophthalmometry values before and after treatment were 22.6  1.98 mm and 18.6  0.996 mm respectively.
Based on these published findings we speculate that local medication for OMG may effectively treat ocular symptoms while decreasing the risk for side effects compared with the use of systemic medication. This article explores the use of locally injected dexamethasone a corticosteroid for the treatment of patients with OMG. Methods end. Patients who came to our hospital during the period from August 2016 to May 2019 were diagnosed with OMG based on the symptoms presented and the results of the neostigmine test. If the neostigmine test was negative a positive results on thymic computed tomography CT electromyography or the acetylcholine receptor antibodyAChR-Abtest was required. The exclusion criteria were systemic symptoms e.g. muscular weakness below the neck refusal to cooperate with the treatment plan and compliance with follow-up. This study adhered to the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by our hospital Ethics Committee. A detailed medical history was obtained for each patient. All patients underwent general and ocular examinations. The general examination included routine blood and urine tests as well as measurements of blood sugar blood lipid liver and kidney function thyroid function erythrocyte sedimentation rate rheumatoid factor and C-reactive protein.
A four-hole lamp was used to check for diplopia and the prism alternative cover test was performed to determine the degree of deviation. Blepharoptosis was classified as mild upper eyelid margin covering < 1/2 pupils with the patient looking straight ahead severe completely unable to open the eyelid fissure or moderate between mild and severe. Ocular motor duction was graded on a scale ranging from 0 to  5 0 normal 5 lack of muscle function  1 to  4 not reaching the midline in 25% increments. Before formal treatment was initiated all patients and their families were given detailed information about theircondition and various treatment methods including the advantages and disadvantages of each. After an understanding of the risks involved was achieved all patients or their parents signed an written informed consent form approved by the institutional Review Board. We also obtained explicit written informed consent to publish all data related to the study including individual details images and videos from the patients or their parents for children < 18 years of age. All patients received local injections of dexamethasone in the peribulbar region or extraocular muscle once a week for 46 times. The site of injection was determined based on the patients ocular signs.
If the main symptom was ptosis with no limitation of ocular duction a peribulbar injection of dexamethasone was administered to the inferolateral orbital quadrant. Patients were closely observed with regard to ocular position and movement diplopia and degree of blepharoptosis visual acuity intraocular pressure and general condition. If the symptoms did not improve after two injections if the patients condition worsened at any time or if any sign of GMG any muscle weakness below the neck or in the facial muscles except the orbicularis oculi appeared the treatment plan was discontinued and the patient was transferred to the neurology department. After treatment the patients were followed up monthly for 6 months or at any sign of disease recurrence. Extraocular muscle injection. Patients assigned to the extraocular muscle injections group received 0.5% dexamethasone 0.2 mL and 2% lidocaine 0.2 mL. After topical anesthesia with proparacaine the clinician disinfected the skin around the eye and the conjunctival surface with 5% povidone iodine. The eyelid was opened and the paralyzed extraocular muscle was clamped with toothed forceps.
Peribulbar injection. Patients assigned to the peribulbar injection group received 0.5% dexamethasone 0.5 mL which was administered with an 27G needle. The drug was slowly injected inside the orbital rim of the inferolateral quadrant posterior to the orbital septum. Statistical analysis. Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS statistical software version 17.0. The degree of strabismus wascompared before vs. after treatment with the t-test. The relationship between the degree of ocular duction limitation and recovery time was tested with the bilateral Pearson correlation test. Results end. During the period from August 2016 to May 2019 20 patients at our hospital were diagnosed with MG. Sixteen patients had OMG and 4 patients had mild general myasthenia gravis GMG. Four patients with GMG were transferred to the external neurology department. Two patients with OMG did not consent to receive treatment. The remaining 14 cases of OMG received the treatment regimen including a 8-years old boy who was successfully treated by local injection under surface anesthesia. Among them 2 patients had an irregular history of medical treatment. Patient age ranged from 8 to 92 years average 38.7  29.7 years.
Four patients had headache and neck weakness. The neostigmine test yielded positive test results in12 cases. CT scans revealed thymic hyperplasia in 3 cases and AChR- Ab positive disease in 6 cases. See Table 1 for details. Among 14 patients 3 cases had normal ocular duction 7 cases had adduction 1 case had abduction 3 cases had adduction and supraduction. The information related to each patients ocular characteristics and the site of injection are detailed in Table 1 and summarized in Supplementary file 1. Treatment outcomes. Patient 7 a 92-year-old female did not significantly improve after receiving 2 injections in the area adjacent to the medial and superior rectus muscles. She was transferred to the neurology department. The exotropia and diplopia experienced by Patient 13 a 73-year-old female resolved after treatment but her blepharoptosis improved only slightly. The remaining 12 patients achieved. BCVA end. good treatment results. Patient 4 and Patient 9 had intermittent exotropia without obvious limitations in duction their symptoms resolved after a single injection. The other 9 patients with limited duction presented with a resolution of their ptosis neck weakness and headache symptoms after one-time treatment.
However the complete recovery of extraocular muscle strength was delayed in some patients. Patients 1 5 and 10 received another 12 injections because persistent limitations in ocular duction. After 3 months of follow-up ocular duction had returned to normal in these patients. Among the patients who ultimately recovered from ptosis the time to recovery time was 1 week. The average time to recovery from diplopia was 1.75  0.62 weeks the average time to recovery of ocular duction was 4.55  2.44 weeks. The time to recovery of ocular duction was inversely correlated with the severity of the limitation R  0.13 P  0.739. The severity of ocular symptoms and recovery time are shown in Table 2. Recurrence. One case Patient 9 relapsed 1 year after recovery. The symptoms were alleviated after 4 local injections of dexamethasone. The condition is stable at present. A cured esotropia patient Patients 14 developed exotropia and diplopia 6 weeks after withdrawal. After 4 injections of dexamethasone into the medial rectus muscles of both eyes the symptoms were relieved once more. However the patients symptoms recurred again after 5weeks. We did not believe that this patient was able to achieve drug-independent remission so local injections were administered once per month.
In short among the 14 cases 11 cases achieved drugindependent remission 1 case achieved drug-dependent remission 1 case improved 1 case failed to improve. The overall cure rate was 85.7%. No patient converted to GMG. The average horizontal deviation absolute value was 28.57  17.5 PD before treatment and 4.92  7.38PD at the time of the last follow-up t   4.73 P < 0.001. The average vertical deviation decreased from 5.85  5.68 PD before treatment to 2.07  2.92 PD after treatment t   3.02 P  0.003. For details see Table 1. Complications. All patients had no local or systemic complications except subconjunctival hemorrhage caused by injection. Including decreased vision increased peribulbar pressure conjunctival and corneal lysis obesity and so on. Representative cases. Case 1 Patient 6 was a 73-year-old male patient who had experienced diplopia and blepharoptosis for 1 month with no headache neck weakness or other symptoms. Upon physical examination the main signs were left eyelid droop and large-angle exotropia accompanied by a mild limitation in supraduction. Dexamethasone was injected into the left medial rectus muscle. The patientsblepharoptosis resolved within 1 week diplopia resolved within 2 weeks eye movement returned to normal in 4 weeks.
Photographs of this case before treatment and 1 week and 1month after treatment respectively are shown in Fig. 1.Case 2 Patient 1 was a 14-year-old female who presented with 8-month history of blepharoptosis and diplopia accompanied by neck weakness headache and inability to sustain visual focus. Main signs moderate blepharoptosis in the right eye mild blepharoptosis in the left eye exotropia right eye adduction with inability to cross the midline. Dexamethasone was injected into the right medial rectus muscle. One week later the patients ptosis headache and neck weakness had resolved. After 3 weeks the diplopia disappeared and eye position was orthophoria. After 4 weeks rotation of the right eye remained insufficient. Dexamethasone was injected another two times. After 2 months eye movement had returned to normal with no recurrence of symptoms over 2 years of follow-up. Photographs of this case before treatment and 1 week 1 month and 3 months after treatment are shown in Fig. 2. end. Discussion. A review of the medical literature did not reveal any reports about the local used of medication in the treatment of OMG. Whether uveitis is caused by systemic disease or thyroid-related ophthalmopathy local inflammation is a contributing factor.
Notably myasthenia is not the direct result of inflammation but rather an antibody-mediated weakness. The symptoms associated with myasthenia are caused by antibody production that is not necessarily localized so local injections of corticosteroid are not expected to reduce the production of circulating antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor. This may be the main reason why few studies published to date have investigated the administration of local treatment for MG. However Agius maintain that OMG may be associated with ocular muscle antigen structure and/or reduced susceptibility to risk factors 16. Soltys et al. 17 reported that in autoimmune MG the neuromuscular junctions in extraocular muscles are more susceptible to complement-mediated injury than are those of other muscles. Local factors thus appear to be a major cause of OMG. Although numerous issues remain to be elucidated the local injection of dexamethasone appears to be an effective treatment option. The local use of dexamethasone is simple convenient and almost risk free. More importantly local injections of dexamethasone have achieved good outcomes in clinical practice.
The overall cure rate was 85.7%. Although the mechanism of local hormone therapy for OMG remain unclear the clinical effect cannot be denied. Among numerous studies have investigated oral drug therapy for OMG few have examined strabismus ptosis or quantified measurements of the range of eye movement as outcomes 6 18 19. Kupersmith et al. 18 reported on the use of prednisone and pyridostigmine for the treatment of patients with OMG. One month later after treatment the degree of strabismus had not changed significantly in the pyridostigmine group and had decreased from 12.2 PD to 5.5 PD in the prednisone group. Among 51 patients who responded to prednisone treatment 26 experienced symptom recurrence as the dose of prednisone was decreased. At 2 years of followup only 12 of 55 patients in the prednisone group reported that symptoms were completely relieved. No patient in the pyridostigmine group was completely relieved. Park et al. 19 followed 20 patients with MG who had obvious paralytic strabismus as the initial symptom for 45.4  39.7 months. After systemic drug therapy hormone and cholinesterase inhibitor only 6 patients 21.4  11.1 had responded well to treatment and reported the disappearance of diplopia.
Six cases underwent strabismus surgery. Vanikieti et al. 6 performed a retrospective study of the effect of oralprednisone and/or pyridostigmine for OMG in children. Only 13 21.67% of 60 children with blepharoptosis achieved drug-independent remission and only 3 7.9% of 38 patients with ophthalmoplegia achieved drugindependent remission. About 50% of patients responded slightly or not at all to oral medication. We summary of the results of this study and previous reports of oral hormonal therapy for OMG in Table 3.In contrast to those previous reports on the use of oral drugs our study show that local injection of dexamethasone has better treatment result for OMG. In our study we preferred directly inject the drug into the affected extraocular muscles typically the medial rectus and investigated the duration of remission for various symptoms. We believe that this approach may help to identify the optimal therapeutic approach with which to accelerate recovery from extraocular paralysis. Among the patients who ultimately recovered from ptosis the time to recovery time was 1 week. The average time to recovery from diplopia was 1.75  0.62 weeks the average time to recovery of ocular duction was 4.55  2.44 weeks.
We found that the recovery of extraocular paralysis is the most difficult which may take several months and the recovery time is related to the degree of muscle paralysis. The recovery time is related to the degree of muscle paralysis. Compared with systemic steroids local dexamethasone injections have a faster onset in OMG patients. Oral steroid-induced clinical improvement usually begins within 2 to 4 weeks with marked improvement requiring 68 weeks 20. Notably although the direct injection of extraocular muscles was chosen the sequence of symptom recovery observed in patients of our study was similar to that observed in patients who received oral drug therapy 6 18 19 21.we also noted the neck muscle farthest from the injection point recovered fastest. We sought to identify the reason for this phenomenon. Nan et al. 22 reported that a single subTenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide TA was able to diffuse throughout the globe including the aqueous irisciliary body vitreous neuroretina retinal pigment epithelium and choroid with therapeutic concentrations maintained for at least 30 days. Roesel et al.
Based on the above research we speculate that periocular corticosteroid injections could easily diffuse into adjacent muscle tissues and thus reach therapeutic concentrations. Recent studies have reported that high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy in patients with OMG 24 or mild GMG 25 achieves faster improvement with better efficacy than oral prednisone. Dexamethasone injection into the periocular or extraocular muscles can also reach other parts of the body through circulating blood. This capacity for diffusion may explain the rapid relief of neck-related symptoms observed in this study. Sub-Tenon injections may achieve the same treatment effects as extraocular muscle injections while reducing risk for muscle hemorrhage and local injury. Although most of the patients had good results we noticed that two elderly patients with severe blepharoptosis had poor results Patients 7 and 13. In addition to the fact that some patients are not sensitive to hormones we also note that the results of systemic oral medication therapy show that the treatment of OMG in children seems to be better than that in older people 6. Whether the same problem exists in local therapy remains to be seen further.
Considering the side effects of hormones we did not administer continuous injection therapy to patients whose symptoms had resolved. In this study 10 of 14 patients 71.3% remained stable during the follow-up period after the treatment was stopped. Some studies suggest that patients who receive immune interval therapy during the early stage of OMG are less likely to develop systemic disease 18 2629. Agius 16 reported that GMG may be due to increased antibody production and the expansion of antigenic molecular targets. The duration of the initial phase of immune attack on the neuromuscular junction may be an important determinant of disease severity. We speculate that the effectiveness of topical corticosteroids in alleviating OMG symptomsmay reduce the possibility of recurrence and aggravation. The dramatic results of this study may also reflect a statistical error caused by the short observation time and the small number of cases. In conclusion the longterm effects of local hormone therapy on OMG require further study. This study had some limitations. Firstly the mechanism of local hormone injection in the treatment of OMG is not clear. Secondly there is no clinical comparison with systemic drugs. In addition the number of cases included in this study is small.
Therefore further studies will be necessary to determine the optimal site to be used for injection the optimal time interval between injections and the optimal course of treatment. The stability of the curative effect achieved the recurrence rate and the rate of conversion will need to investigated on a larger scale and for a longer period of time. Conclusion. In our small prospective study the local injection of dexamethasone in the treatment of OMG achieved good short-term results supporting its use as a partial replacement for oral drug therapy. However its mechanism still needs to be explored and larger clinical controlled studies are also needed. Supplementary information. The online version contains supplementary material available at https//doi. org/10.1186/s12886-020-01697-2.Additional file 1 Table S1. The Summary of patient characteristics and injection sites.
eral rectus muscleAcknowledgements Not applicable.Authors contributions MS conceived and designed the study. YYJZAQ JCHR participated in information gathering and editing analyzed and interpreted all the data.MS wrote the first draft of manuscript. YY reviewed and edited the manuscript. MS reviewed and approved the final the version published. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.Funding This study was supported in part by Research Fund of Aier Eye Hospital Group Project No AFM1078D1.The funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript. None of authors have any financial interest in any of the material described herein.Availability of data and materials The data are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.Ethics approval and consent to participate This study was performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the Ethics Committee of Wuhan Aier Eye HospitalHanyang China 2016IRBKYA022.
McGrogan A Sneddon S de Vries CS. The incidence of myasthenia gravis asystematic literature review. Neuroepidemiology. 201034317183. 2 end. Casetta I Groppo E De Gennaro R Cesnik E Piccolo L Volpato S Granieri E.Myasthenia gravis a changing pattern of incidence. J Neurol end. 201025712 20159.3. Benamer HT Bredan A. The epidemiology of myasthenia gravis in Arab countries a systematic review. Muscle Nerve. 20155111445. 4 end. Gilhus NE Verschuuren JJ. Myasthenia gravis subgroup classification and therapeutic strategies. Lancet Neurol. 20151410102336. 5 end. Huang X Liu WB Men LN Feng HY Li Y Luo CM Qiu L. Clinical features of myasthenia gravis in southern China a retrospective review of 2154 cases over 22 years. Neurol Sci. 20133469117. 6 end. Vanikieti K Lowwongngam K Padungkiatsagul T Visudtibhan A Poonyathalang A. Juvenile ocular myasthenia gravis presentation and outcome of a large cohort. Pediatr Neurol. 2018873641. 7 end. Luchanok U Kaminski HJ. Ocular myasthenia diagnostic and treatment recommendations and the evidence base. Curr Opin Neurol. 2008211815. 8 end. Fortin E Cestari DM Weinberg DH. Ocular myasthenia gravis an update on diagnosis and treatment. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 201829647784. 9 end. Mantegazza R Bonanno S Camera G Antozzi C.
Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2011715160. 10 end. Roberts PF Venuta F Rendina E De Giacomo T Coloni GF Follette DM Richman DP Benfield JR. Thymectomy in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 200112235628. 11 end. Tempest-Roe S Joshi L Dick AD Taylor SR. Local therapies for inflammatory eye disease in translation past present and future. BMC Ophthalmol. 2013 13139. 12 end. Foeldvari I. Ocular involvement in juvenile idiopathic arthritis classification and treatment. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 20154932717. 13 end. Heiligenhaus A Michels H Schumacher C Kopp I Neudorf U Niehues T Baus H Becker M Bertram B Dannecker G et al. Evidence-based interdisciplinary guidelines for anti-inflammatory treatment of uveitis associated with juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Rheumatol Int. 2012325112133. 14 end. Lee JM Lee H Park M Baek S. Subconjunctival injection of triamcinolone for the treatment of upper lid retraction associated with thyroid eye disease. J Craniofac Surg. 201223617558. 15 end. Alkawas AA Hussein AM Shahien EA. Orbital steroid injection versus oral steroid therapy in management of thyroid-related ophthalmopathy. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 20103876927. 16 end. Agius MA end. Treatment of ocular myasthenia with corticosteroids yes. Arch Neurol. 20005757501. 17 end.
Extraocular muscle susceptibility to myasthenia gravis unique immunological environment Ann N Y Acad Sci. 200811322204. 18 end. Kupersmith MJ Ying G. Ocular motor dysfunction and ptosis in ocular myasthenia gravis effects of treatment. Br J Ophthalmol. 20058910 13304.19. Park KA Oh SY. Treatment for diplopia in patients with myasthenia gravis. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 20132513895901. 20 end. Sghirlanzoni A Peluchetti D Mantegazza R Fiacchino F Cornelio F. Myasthenia gravis prolonged treatment with steroids. Neurology. 1984 3421704. 21 end. Bever CJ Aquino AV Penn AS Lovelace RE Rowland LP. Prognosis of ocular myasthenia. Ann Neurol. 19831455169. 22 end. Nan K Sun S Li Y Qu J Li G Luo L Chen H Cheng L. Characterisation of systemic and ocular drug level of triamcinolone acetonide following a single sub-Tenon injection. Br J Ophthalmol. 20109456548. 23 end. Roesel M Heinz C Koch JM Heiligenhaus A. Comparison of orbital floor triamcinolone acetonide and oral prednisolone for cataract surgery management in patients with non-infectious uveitis. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010248571520. 24 end. Ozawa Y Uzawa A Kanai T Oda F Yasuda M Kawaguchi N Himuro K Kuwabara S. Efficacy of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy for ocular myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci.
25 end. Sugimoto T Ochi K Ishikawa R Tazuma T Hayashi M Mine N Naito H Nomura E Kohriyama T Yamawaki T. Initial deterioration and intravenous methylprednisolone therapy in patients with myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci. 2020412116740. 26 end. Sommer N Sigg B Melms A Weller M Schepelmann K Herzau V Dichgans J. Ocular myasthenia gravis response to long-term immunosuppressive treatment. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 199762215662. 27 end. Kupersmith MJ Latkany R Homel P. Development of generalized disease at 2 years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol. 2003602 2438. 28 end. Mee J Paine M Byrne E King J Reardon K ODay J. Immunotherapy of ocular myasthenia gravis reduces conversion to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neuroophthalmol. 20032342515. 29 end. Monsul NT Patwa HS Knorr AM Lesser RL Goldstein JM. The effect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci. 200421721313. Publishers Note. Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Lessons from Two Trials of Mycophenolate Mofetil in Myasthenia Gravis. Two randomized controlled trials of mycophenolate mofetil MMF in the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG were recently completed.
After reviewing the design and results of these trials we discuss possible reasons leading to negative results and the lessons learned which should be useful for future clinical trials in MG. Lessons from Two Trials of Mycophenolate Mofetil in Myasthenia GravisDONALD B. SANDERSa AND ZAEEM A. SIDDIQIbaDuke University Medical Center Durham NorthCarolina USA bUniversity of Alberta Edmonton Alberta CanadaTwo randomized controlled trials of mycophenolate mofetil MMF in the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG were recently completed. Although neither study demonstrated efficacy of MMF in the population of patients studied there are valuable lessons in the way these studies were developed and performed. After reviewing the design and results of these trials we discuss possible reasons leading to negative results and the lessons learned which should be useful for future clinical trials in MG.Key words myasthenia gravis mycophenolate mofetil clinical trial Muscle Study Group. Introduction.
ment of two large-scale clinical trials results of which have recently been reported. Study 1 A Trial of Mycophenolate Mofetil with Prednisone as Initial Immunotherapy in MG. In 2001 the Muscle Study Group MSG developed a protocol to compare MMF with placebo in a 6- month trial which was submitted to the FDA Orphan Products Development Program for funding.8 Concerns about the safety of committing MG subjects to placebo for this length of time led to a modified protocol funding for which was obtained in 2003 from the FDA and Roche Laboratories. This was a randomized double-blind controlled trial comparing MMFAddress for correspondence Donald B. Sanders MD Box 3403 Duke University Medical Center Durham NC 27710.Donald.SandersDuke.eduplus prednisone with prednisone alone for 3 months as an initial therapy in previously immune-naive subjects TABLE 1.
Patients with purely ocular MG or thymoma were excluded as they represent subsets of disease with potentially different responses to therapy. Previous treatment with immunosuppressive medications and disease duration more than 10 years were not permitted as inclusion could have selected for subjects refractory to immunosuppression. Subjects with severe oropharyngeal or respiratory weakness MG Foundation of America MGFA Class IVb or V9 were excluded for safety reasons.Safety was also a major concern in determining the duration of the study as well as the dose of prednisone to be used. There was concern that withholding treatment for more than 3 months would risk unacceptable disease progression. Preliminary experience had suggested that potential benefit from 20 mg/day prednisone would be more than offset by the synergistic effect of prednisone and MMF. Hence this prednisone dose was deemed high enough to prevent dangerous disease progression in subjects receiving placebo but low enough to minimize steroid side effects and not to mask the benefit of MMF.Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. 1132 249253 2008. C 2008 New York Academy of Sciences.
MMF was in common use when this study began and was widely considered an effective and indicated treatment for MG. Thus withholding this drug or other immunosuppressive therapy for an extended study was not felt to be acceptable.The minimal effective dose of MMF in MG has not been determined though prior studies had shown that most patients respond with 2 g/day. In the experience of the investigators side effects of MMF were no greater with 2.5 g/day than with 2 g/day thus the higher dose was used to further increase the probability of benefit.The primary measure of efficacy was change in the Quantitative MG Score QMGS10 at the end of 3 months. QMGS is a validated measure recommended for use in MG treatment trials by the MGFA Task Force.9 Results from previous randomized controlled trials in MG indicated that the standard deviation of the changes in QMGS from base line to 3 months should be approximately 4 points1112 with a change of 2.6 points being clinically significant.10Power calculations indicated that a total sample size of 56 subjects 28 subjects/group would provide 80% power to detect a mean difference of 3 QMGS points between. the groups.
These included an MG-specific manual muscle score14 an MG-specific quality of life score a subjective global assessment of response by the treating physician an MG-specific activities of daily living questionnaire MG-ADL15 and change in the AChR-ab level at 3 months compared with study entry. The MG-ADL questionnaire was also used as a safety measure to assess changes in MG symptoms between clinic visits.Subjects who completed the 3-month blinded phase could elect to receive open-label MMF for an additional 6 months as the prednisone dose was tapered as tolerated under the direction of the treating physician. The open-label phase assessed the steroid-sparing effect of MMF and its safety and side effects in a larger population when given over a longer time.Based on pretrial discussions with the eight participating sites each to enroll 10 subjects the projected period of enrollment was 18 months. The first subject was enrolled in December 2002 but by July 2003 only 17 subjects were enrolled which led to expansion ofthe trial to five more U.S. centers end. In July 2004 Aspreva Pharmaceuticals Basking Ridge NJ undertook to include data from this study in a New Drug Indication application to the U.S. FDA and began site monitoring as required for inclusion in a regulatory submission.
Results end. Both MMF and placebo-treated groups improved to the same degree during the blinded phasethere was no significant difference in the mean change in QMGS between the two groups. Improvement was unexpectedly high in both groups 85% in the MMF and 77% in the placebo group were judged by the site investigator to have improved with 37% in the MMF and 39% in the placebo group having marked improvement. During the open-label phase the prednisone dose was reduced by a similar amount in the MMF 8 mg/day and placebo groups 11 mg/day. The improvement was also similar in most secondary outcome measures in both groups. Study 2 end. An International Phase III Randomized Trial of Mycophenolate Mofetil in Myasthenia Gravis. In August 2004 Aspreva Pharmaceuticals began a parallel steroid-sparing study with the goal of seeking regulatory approval for MG as an added indication for MMF.16 This was a prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled parallel-group international multicenter trial to assess the efficacy and safety of adjunct MMF in 176 subjects aged 1880 years with generalized mild to moderately severe AChR-ab-positive MG who had taken at least 20 mg/day prednisone for at least 4 weeks TABLE 1.
The study used a novel composite primary endpoint designed to mirror the way immunosuppressants are used clinically in MG and included outcome measures recommended by the MGFA Task Force9 subjects received prednisone and study drug until they improved to a MGFA Post-Intervention Status of Minimal Manifestations MM or Pharmacological Remission PR and the prednisone dose was then progressively reduced to the target dose. The primary measure of efficacy was the percent of subjects who reached and maintained this defined treatment response during the last 4 weeks of the study while taking 120 mg/day or less of pyridostigmine. The MMF dose of 1 g twice-daily that was used had been effective in several previous studies.2317Secondary efficacy outcomes in this study included 1 times to initial and to sustained treatment response 2 area under the prednisone time/dose curve 3 prednisone and pyridostigmine doses at study termination 4 number of intravenous immunoglobulin and plasma exchange treatments received during the study if any 5 change from base line in QMGS 6 change from base line in SF-36 and MG-ADL scale 7 change .
Difficulties in recruitment led to the expansion of the number of centers to 43 in 2005 with centers added in Ukraine Israel Spain India Italy France Russia Serbia and Mexico. The study was completed in October 2006. This was the first large international multicenter phase III study to employ full MGFA guidelines and demonstrated that such a study can be successfully performed in a rare orphan autoimmune neurological disease such as MG. Results end. MMF did not produce additional benefit to shortterm treatment with prednisone alone. The proportion of subjects achieving the primary endpoint was the same in both treatment groups 40% and improvement in the secondary measures was similar in both groups. Discussion. Neither study was successful in demonstrating additional benefit of MMF over prednisone in the patient populations tested under the conditions of these protocols. In the MSG study both the placebo and MMF groups improved to the same degree by all study measures at the end of the 3-month blinded phase.
The data were gathered from two large and robust MG trials with designs that mirrored clinical practice and produced nearly identical results. How can these results be reconciled with the positive outcomes of previous studies and many clinicians experience with MMF in MGIn our opinion several factors could have limited the ability of these studies to demonstrate efficacy of MMF in MG. Study Duration. In the MSG study the predicted onset of benefit and hence the duration of the blinded-phase was based on the following reports and observations An open-label pilot study of MMF in 12 patients with refractory or steroid-dependent MG showed that 67% improved within 2 months after MMF was begun.3  A retrospective review reported clinical improvement in two-thirds of 85 MMF-treated patients with MG beginning at a mean of 10.8 weeks.5  In a review of 25 MG patients at two institutions who improved af. ter beginning MMF 22 showed improvement of at least 3 QMG points after 2 months.This experience suggested that MMF produces clinically significant improvement within 2 months in more than 90% of responders.
Longer-term trials would be needed to demonstrate delayed initial responses and to study the longterm effects on maintenance of disease control and prevention of relapse months after prednisone discontinuation. Prednisone Effect. In both trials the benefit of prednisone was considerably greater than predicted which may have masked the additional and steroid-sparing effects of MMF. For example 77% of placebo subjects improved in the MSG study as did about 40% of placebo subjects in the Aspreva study. Whereas most patients in published reports that suggest benefit from MMF had previouslybeen treated with corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants subjects in the MSG study began prednisone at the time of randomization. The improvement in both groups in that study thus could reflect at least in part the beneficial effect of prednisone which could mask the benefit from MMF in a short-term study such as this. In the Aspreva study the prednisone tapering regimen may have been too rapid and may not reflect the regimen used by many treating physicians. Also the duration of corticosteroid treatment prior to entry to that study was variable and many subjects may have been started on prednisone shortly before randomization.
The results of both studies suggest that the prednisone doses currently used in clinical practice may be higher than necessary and should raise questions about current corticosteroid protocols and doses. Subject Selection. The study populations in both trials may not have been the most likely to benefit from MMF. Most subjects had disease of mild-to-moderate severity most being MGFA class II or IIIAfew had class IV and none had class V. In the MSG study selection may have been biased toward subjects with early-onset steroidresponsive disease. In the Aspreva study the inclusion criterion requiring a minimum prednisone dose of 20 mg/day at entry may have biased the study population to those who do not need a steroid-sparing agent. Conversely the steroid dose requirement at study entry may have favored recruiting subjects with a more resistant form of MG. The variability of the disease coupled with the variability inherent in having the participation of 43 international centers in the Aspreva study might have confounded the patient assessment and management which is subjective and variable across the globe. Other end. One of the shortcomings highlighted by these trials is the lack of an objective and practical clinical outcome measure for trials in MG.
Although a validated assessment tool in MG QMGS is not routinely used by many centers. Lack of experience of the participating sites with this scoring system may have affected the study results. Also the composite outcome measure used in the Aspreva trial may have been too rigorous to demonstrate a lesser but clinically significant response. Conclusions. Obviously these studies have significant implications for MG patients currently taking MMF future MG patients treating physicians and future study designs. Should MMF be abandoned as a treatment for MG based on these studies Opinions about this are sharply divided even among the authors of these papers who have extensive experience with MMF some have stopped prescribing MMF some then had the experience of patients relapsing when it was discontinued and others believe the final answer is not in. While a conclusion that MMF is not effective in MG has the virtue of superficial simplicity and decisiveness the risk is that a potentially useful drug is prematurely set aside because of factors related to the study designs. Our usage of MMF in MG will not be determined by these results alone and we feel that more study will be required before the full potential of MMF in MG is known.
Considering the diversity of opinions among informed investigators many of whom manage large numbers of patients with this uncommon disease we believe it would be a mistake to form a final conclusion about the effects of MMF on MG based on these studies. The more conservative approach is to point out the potential issues in the study designs and leave the door open for future investigation which may be warranted given the excellent side-effect profile of MMF and the extensive anecdotal experience and retrospective case studies suggesting its benefit.These trials have provided valuable insights into the trials and tribulations of designing and conducting clinical trials in a rare and complicated disease and will be useful in the design of any fut. ure studies. Issues such as trial duration and its associated costs concurrent immunosuppressant dosing selection and recruitment will need to be carefully addressed in any future trials. Ironically there would be more equipoise in future studies regarding the value of MMF in MG making it more feasible to undertake a head-to-head study of MMF and another immunosuppressant alone or as steroid-sparing agents.
Disclosures Dr. Sanders has received consultation fees fromsanofi-aventis and Accordant Health Services. He is on the speakers program for Athena Diagnostics and has received research support through his institution from Roche Laboratories and Aspreva Pharmaceuticals. Dr end. Siddiqi has nothing to disclose. The use of sugammadex in a patient with myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis affecting neuromuscular transmission leads to a large variability in sensitivity to depolarising and non-depolarising neuromuscular blocking drugs. We report the successful use of the modified l-cyclodextrin sugammadex in a myasthenic patient to reverse a rocuronium-induced deep level of neuromuscular block. After spontaneous neuromuscular recovery of T2 second twitch of the train-of-four series we administered 2 mg.kg of sugammadex intravenously reversing neuromuscular blockade to a train-of-four ratio T4  T1 > 90% within 210 s. Sugammadex in combination with objective neuromuscular monitoring can be used to reverse rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade in patients with myasthenia gravis thereby avoiding the need for reversal with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. CASE REPORTS. The use of sugammadex in a patient with myasthenia gravis. C end. Unterbuchner1 H. Fink2 and M. Blobner3 end. end.
end. Summary end. Myasthenia gravis affecting neuromuscular transmission leads to a large variability in sensitivity to depolarising and non-depolarising neuromuscular blocking drugs. We report the successful use of the modified l-cyclodextrin sugammadex in a myasthenic patient to reverse a rocuronium-induced deep level of neuromuscular block. After spontaneous neuromuscular recovery of T2 second twitch of the train-of-four series we administered 2 mg.kg1 of sugammadex intravenously reversing neuromuscular blockade to a train-of-four ratio T4  T1 > 90% within 210 s. Sugammadex in combination with objective neuromuscular monitoring can be used to reverse rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade in patients with myasthenia gravis thereby avoiding the need for reversal with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors....................................................................................................... Correspondence to Dr med. Christoph Unterbuchner E-mail c.unterbuchnerlrz.tum.de Accepted 17 December 2009Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease affecting neuromuscular transmission. Auto-antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor reduce the total amount of acetylcholine receptors resulting in an unpredictable response to administered neuromuscular blocking drugs 1 2.
Regional and local anaesthesia should be employed when possible but many surgical interventions require neuromuscular blockade. Because of the large variability in sensitivity to nondepolarising neuromuscular blocking drugs the dose of the latter must be carefully titrated. Neuromuscular transmission must be monitored continuously by objective devices to ensure complete reversal of neuromuscular block before emergence from anaesthesia. Sugammadex a newly introduced modified l-cyclodextrin encapsulates steroidal neuromuscular blocking drugs and could therefore facilitate return to pre-operative muscle function. Case report. A 72-year-old male patient weight 88 kg height 172 cm was scheduled for elective radical prostatectomy.Written consent for the procedure anaesthesia collection of data and publication was obtained. The patient had been diagnosed with myasthenia gravis in 1988 and undergone a thymectomy in 1989. He had developed only slight ocular symptoms ptosis.The pre-operative serum level of acetylcholine receptor antibodies was 4.2 nmol.l1. Pre-operative blood chemistry ECG and respiratory function spirometry were all within normal limits and he was noted to have hyperlipidaemia. His daily medication comprised of simvastatin and 10 mg pyridostigmine in the morning.
Preoperatively the patient had a Leventhal score of 0 points a score of < 10 points means there is a low risk of requiring postoperative mechanical ventilation 5.The patient was not premedicated but did receive his usual dose of pyridostigmine. Following pre-oxygenation anaesthesia was induced in the supine position with intravenous administration of 20 lg sufentanil and 200 mg propofol. Anaesthesia was initially maintained with propofol 5 mg.kg1.h1. The lungs were ventilated via a laryngeal mask airway with oxygen 50% in air. Neuromuscular monitoring was then applied and calibrated according to international consensus guidelines 6 using objective evoked electromyography of the adductor pollicis muscle with a NMT neuromuscularAnaesthesia 2010 65 pages 302305 doi10.1111/j.1365-2044.2009.06236.x .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................2010 The Author. s 302 Journal compilation 2010 The Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Irelandtransmission module in a General Electric Datex Light monitor GE Datex Medical Instrumentation Inc. Tewksbury MA USA.
After 6 min of calibration train-of-four ratio T4  T1 was stable between 0.95 and 1.05. The first twitch of the train-of-four series T1 was stable at > 0.90 of the baseline value. Train-of-four stimulation showed no significant fade of twitch responses.We then administered 22 mg rocuronium single effective dose for a 95% block ED95 calculation based on the patients ideal weight of 72 kg followed by seven 3-mg boluses until deep neuromuscular blockade was achieved T1  0% of baseline Fig. 1 end. We then removed the laryngeal mask airway and performed tracheal intubation. We also monitored the ECG pulse oximetry airway pressure tidal volume body temperature nasopharyngeal skin temperature inspiratory and exspiratory oxygen fractions and capnography. Anaesthesia was maintained during surgery with 57 mg.kg1.h1 propofol and a total dose of 50 lg sufentanil. Systolic blood pressure remained above 100 mmHg arterial oxygen saturation above 97% body temperature above 36 C and skin temperature above 32.6 C. During the 210-min operation we maintained neuromuscular blockade using a continuous infusion of rocuronium. Values of T1 remained at 16  3% of baseline for 102 min using 32.2 mg.h1 6.1 lg.kg1.min1 rocuronium. The rocuronium and propofol infusions were stopped at the end of surgery.
We then administered 2 mg.kg1 176 mg sugammadex intravenously. Within 210 s the train-of-four ratio T4  T1 had reached 90% and after 9 min T1 exceeded 90% of baseline. Train-of-four ratiosT4  T1 were reliably higher than 97% after 13 min and 30 s. The patient returned to spontaneous breathing tidal volume > 10 ml.kg1 with an inspiratory force exceeding 25 cmH2O. He could lift his head and arms open his eyes protrude his tongue for at least 5 s and therefore fulfilled previously described criteria for tracheal extubation in a myasthenic patient 7. On arrival in the postanaesthesia care unit his muscle function was clinically unimpaired. He was able to drink 20 ml water without complication and did not complain of subjective muscle weakness with exception of the slight pre-existing ocular symptoms.The patient was transferred to the intermediate care unit where neuromuscular function was monitored every 2 h clinically and by acceleromyography TOF-WatchMonitor  Organon Eppelheim Germany. After 48 h he was discharged to the ward and left hospital 8 days after the operation. Discussion.
Subjective tactile or visual evaluation of the evoked response to nerve stimulation is not able to predict depth of neuromuscular blockade accurately 8 9.Calibration of electromyography was performed during total intravenous anaesthesia to provide a reliable baseline and to demonstrate fading in train-of-four stimulation patterns. We avoided volatile anaesthetics because in clinically used concentrations they can inhibit neuromuscular transmission both pre- and postsynapti-120 Rocuronium 43 mgStop RocuroniumReturn of T2 176 mg SugammadexStart of steady state Rocuronium 32.2 mg.h1Rocuronium cumulative dose  151 mg100806040200 0824 0852 0921 0950 1019 1048 1116 1145 1214 1243TO Fa ndT 1% Figure 1 Recording of the neuromuscular block during anaesthesia. Dashed lines represent the T1 first twitch of the train-of-four series expressed as a percentage of the baseline value. The bold line is the train-of-four TOF ratio T4  T1 expressed as a percentage.2010 The Authors Journal compilation 2010 The Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland 303cally particularly in myasthenic patients 1012. Our patient required almost normal induction 43 mg and repetitive total 108 mg dosages of rocuronium to achieve and maintain paralysis.
Other clinical pharmacological and immunological approaches fail to predict the sensitivity of myasthenic patients to non-depolarising blocking drugs 1417.Cholinesterase inhibitors have been the only option for reversal of neuromuscular block before the development of sugammadex. In myasthenic patients these drugs have to be used with caution because they may be ineffective during chronic anticholinergic therapy and can induce a cholinergic crisis which can be clinically indistinguishable from a myasthenic crisis 1820.The modified l-cyclodextrin sugammadex has been available in Germany since October 2008. Its intravascular encapsulating mechanism of action distant from the neuromuscular junction suggest it should be ideal for reversing both superficial and deep levels of neuromuscular block especially in myasthenic patients 21. The balance of acetylcholine in the neuromuscular nicotinic or muscarinic cleft is not disturbed.In our patient 176 mg sugammadex 2 mg.kg1 reversed deep neuromuscular blockade within 210 s with no sign of significant fading T4  T1  90% T1 recovered from 48% to 90% of baseline over a period of 9 min and was as stable as T4  T1.
Avoiding intravenous administration of pyridostigmine would also have reduced the potential risk of a cholinergic and myasthenic crisis.The combination of rocuronium and sugammadex could also replace the need for suxamethonium in rapid sequence induction in patients with myasthenic syndrome. The effect of suxamethonium on patients with decreased numbers of acetylcholine receptors is hard to predict. The ED95 for suxamethonium has been described as up to 2.6 times higher than normal. Therefore the endplate potential may not reach the threshold necessary for depolarising phase I block and so suxamethonium may immediately induce a phase II block 22. Moreover it is possible that decreased plasma cholinesterase activity induced by pre-operative medication could prolong and potentiate the neuromuscular block 23.We have effectively used the modified l-cyclodextrin sugammadex in a myasthenic patient to reverse rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade. We suggest that objective neuromuscular monitoring is essential inthese patients. Further evidence is required to examine the use of sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis especially in patients with a pre-operative fade T4  T1 < 0.90 on train-of-four testing. Leishmania infantum leishmaniasis in corticosteroid  treated patients.
Immunosuppression related to HIV infection immunosuppressive treatment organ transplantation and neoplastic diseases increases the risk for Leishmania-infected people to develop visceral illness. Case presentation Three cases of Leishmania infantum leishmaniasis in corticosteroid CStreated patients are reported an isolated lingual leishmaniasis in a farmer treated with CS for asthma a severe visceral leishmaniasis associated with cutaneous lesions in a woman with myasthenia gravis and a visceral involvement after cutaneous leishmaniasis in a man receiving CS. Conclusion Physicians should recognise CS-treated patients as a population likely to be immunesuppressed. In immunodeficiency conditions unusual forms of leishmaniasis can develop and foster the risk of a diagnostic delay and of poor response to therapy. Background The number of leishmaniasis cases associated with immunosuppression has increased regularly over the past 20 years. Immunosuppression related to HIV infection drugs organ transplantation and neoplastic diseases increases the risk for Leishmania-infected people to develop visceral illness. In southwestern Europe visceral leishmaniasis VL is the clinical form most frequently associated to immunosuppression particularly to HIV infection 12.
Case presentation Patient 1 In August 2001 a 79-year-old man was admitted to a community hospital because of a violaceous thickened dyskeratosic and painless lesion diameter 2  2 cm on his tongue with a deep central ulcer. A biopsy of the lesion showed deep inflammatory infiltration with macrophages containing numerous Leishmania amastigotes. The patient a farmer living in the rural area around Rome Italy was referred to our Institute. He had a glucose-6phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency suffered from asthma and was given chronic corticosteroid CS therPublished 18 December 2006 BMC Infectious Diseases 2006 6177 doi10.1186/1471-2334-6-177 Received 04 March 2006 Accepted 18 December 2006 This article is available from http//www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2334/6/177  2006 Pittalis et al licensee BioMed Central Ltd. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License http//creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0 which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.
In immunodeficiency conditions unusual forms of leishmaniasis can develop and foster the risk of a diagnostic delay and of poor response to therapy.Background The number of leishmaniasis cases associated with immunosuppression has increased regularly over the past 20 years. Immunosuppression related to HIV infection drugs organ transplantation and neoplastic diseases increases the risk for Leishmania-infected people to develop visceral illness. In southwestern Europe visceral leishmaniasis VL is the clinical form most frequently associated to immunosuppression particularly to HIV infection 12. In immunodeficiency conditions unusual forms of leishmaniasis can develop and foster the risk of a fatal diagnostic delay and of a poor response to therapy.Case presentation Patient 1 In August 2001 a 79-year-old man was admitted to a community hospital because of a violaceous thickened dyskeratosic and painless lesion diameter 2  2 cm on his tongue with a deep central ulcer. A biopsy of the lesion showed deep inflammatory infiltration with macrophages containing numerous Leishmania amastigotes.The patient a farmer living in the rural area around Rome Italy was referred to our Institute.
The laboratory data on admission are reported in Table 1. Protein electrophoresis showed a mild hypergammaglobulinaemia. The immunofluorescence assay Diamedix Corporation Miami-Florida for the detection of anti-Leishmania infantum antibodies was positive 1640. The search for antibodies against HIV resulted negative. A bone marrow aspirate did not show Leishmania amastigotes and a restriction fragment lenght polymorphism polymerase chain reaction PCR-RFLP 3 for the search of Leishmania DNA on bone marrow and peripheral blood resulted negative. L end. infantum was identified by PCR-RFLP on the tongue biopsy.The patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B 3 mg/kg daily i.v. on days 15 14 and 21 with complete recovery. After a 3-year follow-up no relapse was noted.Patient 2 In February 2004 a 72-year-old housewife complained of weight loss recurrent fever and diarrhea after pneumonia. She lived in the rural area around Rome Italy and had been taking CS and myorelaxants for 16 years because of myasthenia gravis. In the year 2000 the patient was treated for visceral leishmaniasis with bone marrow involvement.
She was febrile 38.5C with an impaired nutritional status 35 Kg and a severe muscular hypotrophy. Upon examination a first trigeminal branch herpes zoster and mild hepatomegaly were found the left nostrilpresented a cutaneous squamous and crusty lesion that had appeared 4 months earlier.The results of hematochemical assays are shown in table 1 particularly a severe lymphopenia lymphocytes 538/ mm3 with 215 CD4 lymphocytes/mm3 and 132 CD8/ mm3 was found. HIV antibody test was negative. The chest X-rays showed an evolution from a single right basal consolidation to multiple bilateral pneumonic foci. The antiLeishmania infantum serologic titer was 1640 and the bone marrow biopsy showed numerous amastigotes of Leishmania spp. Intra-macrophagic amastigotes were also seen at histologic examination of the nasal lesion. L end. infantum was identified by PCR-RFLP on peripheral blood and on nasal lesions. The patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B 3 mg/kg daily for 10 days total 30 mg/kg and with levofloxacin 500 mg daily for 10 days obtaining clinical remission with a gradual improvement of the nasal lesion.
In 1997 he complained of edema of the lips with maculopapular non-itching lesions a Mieschers granulomatous cheilitis was diagnosed and he was treated with local and systemic CS courses. The lesions of the perioral region disappeared unlike the lips edema. In April 2003 he was admitted to a community hospital with remittent fever 40C associated to increasing asthenia and normocytic anemia. Amastigotes of Leishmania were recognized in the bone marrow and lip biopsies. The patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B 3 mg/kg daily i.v. on days 1 5 14 and 21 total 21 mg/kg. The fever disappeared andthe edema of the lips substantially decreased. However few weeks after the end of the therapy febrile episodes recurred and in December 2003 a new course of amphotericin B therapy was prescribed liposomal amphotericin B 5 mg/kg daily i.v. for 10 days. Clinical improvement with persistent detection of L. infantum PCR-RFLP on peripheral blood was observed.On admission to our Institute the patient was febrile 39C and presented lips edema with erythematous and cutaneous squamous lesions diffuse lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly. The results of blood tests are shown in the table 1.
Multiple blood cultures HIV and Parvo virus B19 antibody searches were all negative. The anti-Leishmania infantum antibodies were positive 1640 while the PCR-RFLP on peripheral blood resulted negative. The patient was treated with two subsequent 28- day courses of meglumine antimonate 20 mg/kg daily he experienced a rapid clinical improvement and no adverse reactions. After a 6-month follow-up the patient is still in good condition although a modest lip edema still remains. The antibody titer for Leishmania infantum is 1160. The PCR for Leishmania spp. on peripheral blood is negative. The bone marrow biopsy shows no evidence of infection.Conclusion Visceral leishmaniasis is a potentially fatal infection in immunocompromised hosts and current therapies frequently fail to eradicate L. donovani from infected tissue 4. The clinical outcome is determined by the Th1 immune response inducing the production of IFN- and IL-2 in response to leishmanial antigens 56.Glucocorticoids affect the effector suppressor and cytotoxic T cells functions trough the blockade of cytokine expression 7 with the result of an increased susceptibility to infections particularly with intracellular microbes 8 such as occurs with Leishmania species.
Our three patients lived in rural areas of central Italy Latium and Tuscany regions where both visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis are endemic. In the past 7 years some 200 cases of visceral leishmaniasis were recorded from these regions and in most of the patients parasites have been identified as L.infantum by means of isoenzyme analysis unpublished data from Istituto Superiore di Sanit Rome. Our first case is a paradigmatic description of the classical lip leishmaniasis that occurred over centuries in Southern Europe. The finding of a viscerotropic Leishmania as cause of a localized leishmaniasis poses the question whether the lesions observed may represent the site of the parasite inoculation or a secondary localization 10. The absence of clinical immunological and parasitological evidence of generalized parasite dissemination in the first case strongly supports the former hypothesis rather than secondary spread from an initial unknown source. Nevertheless the use of steroids and the elderly age of the patient could suggest a secondary involvement of the tongue 10.
Particularly a laryngeal leishmaniasis case has been described in a UK patient undergoing inhalation and oral steroid therapy for asthma who frequently visited Southern Europe without extra European travels 11.In the further two cases the prolonged steroid use was likely to be associated to the clinical severity of the disease 1314. In the female patient affected by myasthenia the relapses the clinical spread to the gastrointestinal tract and the severe T lymphocyte defects were all factors likely to be related to the sustained impairment of the immune response. The third case shows the visceral involvement of a leishmaniasis case initially confined to the skin region only. The cutaneous leishmaniasis must be differentiated from sporotrichosis mycobacteriosis sarcoidosis syphilis lupus vulgaris and neoplasms in general the histologic examination led to the correct diagnosis. The peri-oral lesions shared characteristics similar to those of the postkala-azar dermal leishmaniasis PKDL 15. In our case the diagnosis of PKDL was excluded by the finding of parasites in the bone marrow.The need of an early clinical advice of the leishmanias diagnosis during the evaluation of HIV febrile patients living in an endemic area is well-known.
We therefore suggest a careful clinical evaluation of immune suppressed patients resident in areas at risk for Leishmania such as the coasts of the Mediterranean Basin. In such patients the occurrence of lymphopenia anemia pancytopenia or hypergammaglobulinemia with recurrent febrile episodes or of long-lasting painless ulcerative lesions should alert clinicians to include leishmaniasis in the differential diagnosis.Page 3 of 4 page number not for citation purposesPublish with BioMed Central and every scientist can read your work free of chargeBioMed Central will be the most significant development for disseminating the results of biomedical research in our lif. etime.Sir Paul Nurse Cancer Research UKYour research papers will beavailable free of charge to the entire biomedical communitypeer reviewed and published immediately upon acceptancecited in PubMed and archived on PubMed Centralyours  you keep the copyrightSubmit your manuscript here http//www.biomedcentral.com/info/publishingadv.aspBioMedcentralCompeting interests The authors of this case presentation declare that they have no financial or non-financial competing interests with regard to the pre.
iochemical data Michele De Marco made substantial contributions to acquisition of data Maria Grazia Paglia carried out the molecular genetic studies and carried out the immunoassays Pasquale Narciso conceived of the study participated in its design and coordination and drafted the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.Acknowledgements The authors are grateful to Luigi Gradoni Istituto Superiore di Sanit Rome for his technical advice and support in revising the manuscript and to Carla Nisii National Institute for Infectious Diseases Rome for her English language revision. Written consent was obtained from the patients for publication of study.References 1. Leishmania/HIV co-infection in south-western Europe 19901998 Retrospective analysis of 965 cases. World Health Organization Department of Communicable Disease Surveillance and Response 2000. 2 end. Desjeux P The increase in risk factors for leishmaniasis worldwide. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 2001 95239-43. 3 end. Minodier P Piarroux R Gambarelli F Joblet C Dumon H Rapid identification of causative species in patients with Old World leishmaniasis. J Clin Microbiol 1997 352551-5. 4 end.
Am J Med 1987 831098-102. 5 end. Kemp K Cytokine-producing T cell subsets in human leishmaniasis. Arch Immunol Ther Exp 2000 48173-6. 6 end. Russo DM Chakrabarti P Burns JM Jr Naive human T cells develop into Th1 or Th0 effectors and exhibit cytotoxicity early after stimulation with Leishmania-infected macrophages. J Infect Dis 1998 1771345-51. 7 end. Boumpas DT Chrousos GP Wilder RL Cupps TR Balow JE Glucocorticoid therapy for immune-mediated diseases. Ann Int Med 1993 1191198-208. 8 end. Stuck AE Minder CE Frey FJ Risk of infectious complications in patients taking glucocorticosteroids. Rev Inf Dis 1989 11954-63. 9 end. Rousseau D Suffia I Ferrua B Philip P Le Fichoux Y Kubar JL Prolonged administration of dexamethasone induces limited reactivation of visceral leishmaniasis in chronically infected BALB/c mice. Eur Cytokine Netw 1998 9655-61. 10 end. Borzoni F Gradoni L Gramiccia M Maccioni A Valdes E Loddo S A case of lingual and palatine localization of a viscerotropic Leishmania infantum zymodeme in Sardinia Italy. Trop Med Parasitol 1991 42193-4. 11 end. Grant A Spraggs PDR Grant HR Bryceson ADM Laryngeal leishmaniasis. J Laring Otol 1994 1081086-88. 12 end. Pazat P Larribaud P Bertrand H Discamps H Leishmaniose du larinx. Annales dOtolaryngologie 1968 85432-35.13.
Haematologica 2001 861004-5. 14 end. Castellino G Covoni M Lo Monaco A Montecucco C Colombo F Trotta F Visceral leishmaniasis complicating a connective tissue disease three case reports from Italy. Lupus 2004 13201-3. 15 end. Zijlstra EE Musa AM Khlil EAG el Hassan IM Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis Lanc Inf Dis 2003 387-98.Pre-publication history The pre-publication history for this paper can be accessed herehttp//www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2334/6/177/pre pubPage 4 of 4 page number not for citation purposes. Reappraisal of Oral Steroid Therapy for Myasthenia Gravis. Treatment with oral corticosteroids at high doses with an escalation and de-escalation schedule is effective against myasthena gravis MG. In fact the use of corticosteroids has led to a reduction in mortality to below 10% after the 1960s. However long-term use of oral steroids above a certain dosage level is known to cause a number of problems. In 2014 the Japanese clinical guidelines for MG proposed that the first goal in MG treatment treatment target should be set at minimal manifestations MM with oral prednisolone PSL 5 mg/day or below and that treatment strategies should strive to attain this level as rapidly as possible.
In the absence of good response the PSL dose should be decreased by combining with modalities such as plasma exchange/plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulin fast-acting treatments. In 2018 we conducted a multicenter cross-sectional study in a large population of Japanese patients with generalized MG aiming to elucidate the correlation between oral PSL regimens and achievement of treatment goals. The ORs for low vs. high dose to achieve treatment goals at 1 2 and 3 years were 10.4 2.75 and 1.86 respectively whereas the corresponding ORs for low vs. medium dose were 13.4 3.99 and 4.92. Early combination with fast-acting therapy OR 2.19 at 2 years 2.11 at 3 years or combination with calcineurin inhibitors OR 2.09 at 2 years 2.36 at 3 years were also positively associated with achieving treatment goals. These results indicate that early combination of low-dose PSL regimens with other therapies is the key for early achievement of treatment goals in generalized MG. However even with this regimen 35% of patients did not achieve the treatment target after 3 years. These results suggest the limitation of the current oral corticosteroid therapy. We need to develop new treatment options to increase the rate of satisfactory outcome.
Received 03 April 2020 Accepted 07 July 2020 Published 25 August 2020CitationImai T Suzuki S Nagane Y Uzawa AMurai H and Utsugisawa K 2020 Reappraisal of Oral Steroid Therapyfor Myasthenia Gravis. Front end. Neurol end. 11868.doi 10.3389/fneur.2020.00868Reappraisal of Oral Steroid Therapy for Myasthenia Gravis Tomihiro Imai 1 Shigeaki Suzuki 2 Yuriko Nagane 3 Akiyuki Uzawa 4 Hiroyuki Murai 5 and Kimiaki Utsugisawa 31Department of Neurology Sapporo Medical University Hospital Sapporo Japan 2Department of Neurology Keio University School of Medicine Tokyo Japan 3Department of Neurology Hanamaki General Hospital Hanamaki Japan 4Department of Neurology Graduate School of Medicine Chiba University Chiba Japan 5Depar. tment of Neurology International University of Health and Welfare Narita JapanTreatment with oral corticosteroids at high doses with an escalation and de-escalationschedule is effective against myasthena gravis MG. In fact the use of corticosteroidshas led to a reduction in mortality to below 10% after the 1960s. However long-termuse of oral steroids above a certain dosage level is known to cause a number ofproblems.
In 2015 a multicenter cross-sectional studyrevealed that higher PSL dose and longer PSL treatment do not ensure better outcome.In the absence of good response the PSL dose should be decreased by combining withmodalities such as plasma exchange/plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulinfast-acting treatments. In 2018 we conducted a multicenter cross-sectional studyin a large population of Japanese patients with generalized MG aiming to elucidatethe correlation between oral PSL regimens and achievement of treatment goals. TheORs for low vs. high dose to achieve treatment goals at 1 2 and 3 years were 10.42.75 and 1.86 respectively whereas the corresponding ORs for low vs. medium dosewere 13.4 3.99 and 4.92. Early combination with fast-acting therapy OR 2.19 at 2years 2.11 at 3 years or combination with calcineurin inhibitors OR 2.09 at 2 years2.36 at 3 years were also positively associated with achieving treatment goals. Theseresults indicate that early combination of low-dose PSL regimens with other therapiesis the key for early achievement of treatment goals in generalized MG. However evenwith this regimen 35% of patients did not achieve the treatment target after 3 years.These results suggest the limitation of the current oral corticosteroid therapy.
Primary diseasemodifying therapies for MG include immunosuppression therapy using oral prednisolone PSL azathioprine cyclosporine mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus 26. Methotrexateanother immunosuppressant is an effective steroid-sparing agent having similar efficacy and tolerability to azathioprine 7. On the other hand additional immunomodulatory therapies may be required for aggressive exacerbations of MG such as plasma exchange/plasmapheresis PE/PP and intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg 813. For patients receiving lowdose prednisolone treatment goal is usually set at minimal symptoms MM according to theMyasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA postintervention status 14. To achieve the treatment goal various immunosuppressive agents have been added to corticosteroids as steroid-sparing agents at the start of treatment 5 1518.This short review will provide an overview of corticosteroid treatment for generalizedMG and introduce a favorable regimen of oral corticosteroids for generalized MG based on a nationwide survey in Japan. HISTORY OF CORTICOSTEROID TREATMENT FOR MG. In 1935 Simon 19 reported the effects of treating MG with anterior pituitary extract. This was probably the first description of the therapeutic effect of corticosteroid-related agents on MG.
Grob et al. 20 underscored the fact that the use of corticosteroids led to a reduction in mortality to below 10% after 1966.Prednisone and prednisolone are the oral corticosteroids commonly used for MG treatment. Both are synthetic corticosteroids sharing similar pharmacological properties such as effectiveness adverse side effects dosing schedules and drug interactions. Prednisone is a biologically inactive compound which must be converted by liver enzymes to prednisolone before it can act. Therefore it is prudent to use prednisolone that do not require enzymatic activation in clinical settings in which liver enzymatic activity is impaired such as severe hepatic failure 21.In 1970 Warmolts et al. 22 reported the beneficial effect of alternate-day prednisone in a patient with MG. In the 1970s and 1980s many clinicians preferred to start prednisone at a low dose 1025mg gradually increasing to 60100mg on alternate days maintain the dose until maximum improvement is reached and then taper the dose dose escalation and deescalation. Pascuzzi et al. 23 retrospectively analyzed 116MG patients treated with prednisone 6080mg daily until the onset of improvement followed by lower-dose alternate-day therapy.
Finally they found 80.2% of the patients achieved either remission 27.6% or marked improvement 52.6%. Sghirlanzoni et al. 24 evaluated the effects of oral corticosteroids in 60MG patients by long-term observation and noted improvement in 72% of the patients. Inaddition they found the best results in those whose symptoms started after the age of 40 years and a correlation between the starting dose of prednisone and the rate of improvement. On the other hand Bae et al. 25 reported that a high daily dosage of prednisone relative to body weight was neither a predictor of exacerbation nor a predictor of early improvement in bivariate correlation analysis. They noted the possibility of steroid-induced exacerbation when prescribing prednisone for MG especially when treating elderly patients and patients with bulbar dominant or severe disease. Although there are few randomized trials of oral corticosteroids alone a Cochrane systematic review on corticosteroids for MG published in 2005 concluded that limited evidence from randomized controlled trials does not show any difference in efficacy between corticosteroids and either azathioprine or intravenous immunoglobulin 26.Dose escalation and de-escalation was also performed traditionally in Japan.
Treatment was continued at the highest dose followed by gradual tapering although the oral steroids usually had to be given chronically with significant risk of adverse events. To address the difficulty of achieving complete remission in adult-onset generalized MG cases the Japanese clinical guidelines for MG published in 2014 recommend that treatment strategies should aim to maintain health-related quality of life and mental health considering the possibility of prolonged treatment 27. The guidelines also recommend to reconsider the use of high-dose steroids with escalation and de-escalation in view of the problems associated with long-term use and the availability of other treatment options. DOSE-DEPENDENT EFFECTS OF CORTICOSTEROIDS. The expected pharmacologic actions of corticosteroids for treating MG may be divided into an anti-inflammatory action and an immunosuppressive action. Corticosteroids target the postsynaptic membrane to suppress inflammatory reactions including complement-mediated reactions at the endplates. The corticosteroids also inhibit the immune system at multiple sites including sequestration and decrease of lymphoid cells 28.
This binding leads to dissociation of heat shock protein 90 and induces transport of the GCGR complex across nuclear membrane to the nucleus. In the nucleus the GC-GR complex binds with various genetic promoters and enhancers of genomic DNA according to the GC responsive elements to regulate the transcription of the target genes 21. These mechanisms would suggest that higher doses of corticosteroids are effective to activate more GRs to obtain favorable anti-inflammatory/immunosuppressiveFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 2 August 2020  Volume 11  Article 868effects. Indeed it is known that high doses of GCs inhibit immunoglobulin synthesis kill B cells 30 and decrease production of components of the complement system 31.Then the clinical question is Does higher doses of corticosteroids ensure better outcome in MG treatment. IS HIGH-DOSE CORTICOSTEROID SUPERIOR TO LOW-DOSE IN MG TREATMENT. end. Oral Corticosteroid Therapy and Present Disease Status in MG. As described in the history of MG therapy oral corticosteroids are traditionally used at high doses with escalation and deescalation schedules.
These patients were divided by current status into a group of MM or better complete stable remission pharmacological remissionMM n 226 and a group of improved or worsening status improvement unchanged worse or exacerbation n  246 Figure 1. There was no significant difference in baseline severity based on clinical classification ofMGFA between theMM or better group and the improved or worse group by Pearson 2 test. The treatment duration with PSL was also similar in the twogroups 6.5 6.4 vs. 7.1 7.0 years p 0.56. Patients taking<5 mg/day of oral PSL were more likely to be classified in the MM or better than in the improved or worse group 75.2 vs. 48.8% p < 0.0001. The daily dose of PSL was significantly lower in the MM or better group than in the improved or worse group 4.7  5.3 vs. 7.3  6.5mg p < 0.0001. The duration of taking PSL 10 mg/day was significantly shorter in the MM or better group than in the improved or worse group 1020 mg/day 1.9  4.0 vs. 2.1  3.9 years p  0.01 20 mg/day or more 0.6  1.2 vs. 1.4  3.5 years p  0.0002. In addition cumulative PSL doses received in the past year was smaller in the MM or better group than in the improved or worse group 1705.9 1791.2 vs. 2460.2  2009.8mg p < 0.0001.
Multivariate logistic regression identified MM or better status at peak dose of PSL p < 0.0001 and treatment with PE/PP and/or IVIg p  0.04 as significant independent positive predictors of achieving MM or better status and total PSL dose in the past year as the only independent negative predictor p  0.03. OR was the highest for MM or better status at peak dose of PSL 12.25 95% CI 7.2221.43 followed by treatment with PE/PP and/or IVIg 1.92 95% CI 1.033.66 and total dose of PSL in the past year 0.17 95% CI 0.030.88 Table 1. Other significant variables identified in univariate analyses and entered into the logistic regression model including the worst QMG score PSL dose and duration and use of calcineurin inhibitors CNI wereFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 3 August 2020  Volume 11  Article 868FIGURE 2  Changes of therapeutic strategy. A The traditional strategy with high-dose oral corticosteroids with escalation and de-escalation schedule. B The new strategy with low-dose oral corticosteroids. PE plasma exchange PP plasmapheresis IVIg intravenous immunoglobulin mPSL methylprednisolone CNI calcineurin inhibitor. This figure is drawn from data published in 32.not significant independent predictors for the achievement of current status of MM or better.
These findings lead to the conclusion that higher doses of PSL and longer duration of PSL treatment are not associated with improvement of current condition and that response to PSL treatment is independent of baseline disease severity based on MGFA classification. In other words MG patients do not possess specific clinical factors associated with poor response to oral corticosteroids but they are composed of patients who respond well and others who response poorly to oral corticosteroids. Our results also suggest the need for fast-acting combination therapies such as PE/PP and/or IVIg to achieve MM or better in patients who respond poorly to oral corticosteroids. PE/PP which uses filtration to remove pathological antibodies through three to seven repeated plasma exchanges has been used inpatients with crisis or aggravated MG 810. In addition IVIg is more frequently used as a promising alternative to PE/PP during exacerbations of MG 1113.
We found that in Japan percentage of CNI use was high in both the MM or better group and the improved or worse group 51.3 vs. 70.7% end. CNIs such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus are recognized as potent corticosteroid-sparing agents especially in patients receiving high-dose oral corticosteroids for extended periods of time 4 3646. If the patients in this study had not been taking CNIs they may have had to take higher doses of corticosteroids.We proposed a low-dose regimen of oral corticosteroid treatment in MG based on the results of our nationwide survey in 2015 32 Figure 2. The low-dose regimen includes low dose of oral corticosteroids early combination of CNIs and fastacting treatments to improve remaining symptoms quickly. The next clinical question is Is the low-dose regimen superior to the high-dose regimen for long-term prognosis of MG. FAVORABLE REGIMEN OF CORTICOSTEROIDS FOR MG TREATMENT. end. Oral Corticosteroid Dosing Regimen and Long-Term Outcome in MG. Even the international consensus guidance does not include an internationally accepted standard dosing regimen for oral corticosteroids 14. We conducted a multicenter cross-sectional study to examine the correlation between oral PSL administration method and actual achievement of treatment goals 47.
Clinical characteristics history of non-PSL treatment and prognosis were compared among the three groups. The effect of oral PSL regimen on the achievement of treatment goals was followed over a 3-year treatment period. Independent Predictors for. MM-or-Better-5mg Identified by. Multivariate Logistic Regression Modeling. Our group also suggests that MM status or better with PSL 5 mg/day or less MM-or-better-5mg is a more realistic treatment goal than CSR and is achievable by more patients 48.Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified low-dose regimen early combination with fast-acting treatment highdose methylprednisolone or PE/PP or IVIg and early use of CNI as predictors of achieving the treatment goal of MM-orbetter-5mg over 6 months 47. ORs for low-dose vs. high-doseFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 4 August 2020  Volume 11  Article 868Modified from 47. HMP high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone PE plasma exchange PP plasmapheresis IVIg intravenous immunoglobulin CNI calcineurin inhibitor.regimen were 10.4 p< 0.0001 after 1 year 2.75 p 0.007 after 2 years and 1.86 p  0.15 after 3 years of treatment.
These results suggest that early combination of low-dose PSL regimens with other therapies is useful for early achievement of treatment goals in patients withgeneralized MG. However only 64.1% of patients who received low-dose PSL therapy were able to achieve the treatment goal until 3 years Table 3. Approximately 35% of patients did not achieve satisfactory outcomes with the new treatment strategy. These results suggest the limitations of current oral corticosteroid therapy and the need to improve the safety and efficacy of corticosteroid therapy. FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS. Oral corticosteroids may be effective for good responders regardless of dosage. MG patients who respond well for various reasons may be able to reduce the dosage of steroids with less difficulty because dose reduction may follow the achievement of good outcome but not cause the outcome. Moreover itFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 5 August 2020  Volume 11  Article 868is not necessary to use high dosage of oral corticosteroids because a number of new treatment options are now available to achieve good outcome. It is time to reconsider high-dose steroid treatment for MG and seek a novel strategy based on patients QOL.
In this case further development of steroid drugs is required.Over the past few decades considerable efforts have been devoted to increase the potency of corticosteroids while minimizing their side effects by modifying the chemical structure of natural GCs 49. Alternative splicing alternative translation initiation of mature mRNAs and post-translational modifications have generated multiple GR isoforms with unique expression gene regulation and functional profiles which have advanced our understanding of the molecular basis of GC susceptibility diversity. Genome-wide GR recruitment studies have shown significant difference of tissue-specific chromatin landscape in GC susceptibility 50.An important challenge in the clinical application of GC is the heterogeneity of GC response between individuals. Advancesin our understanding of GC expression patterns may reveal important mechanisms of poor response in MG treatment. The breakthrough may accelerate not only the design of novel therapeutic strategies for poor responders but also the prediction of enhanced response to corticosteroids for good responders.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS. All authors were involved in conception and design of the work and in acquisition of data. TI was involved in analysis interpretation of data and drafted the article. All other co-authors revised it critically for important intellectual content. FUNDING end. This study was supported by JAMG-R study group. Long-term treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis with FK506 tacrolimus. Efficacy and safety of long term use of FK506 24.5 mg/ day for a maximum of two years were evaluated in 12 patients with generalised myasthenia gravis MG. At the end of the study eight patients 67% showed improvement in either MG score or Activities in Daily Living score and prednisolone dosage could be reduced in seven patients 58% with a mean reduction ratio of 37%. Long term use of FK506 for MG can be more effective than short term administration with no serious side effects. SHORT REPORTLong-term treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis with FK506 tacrolimus T Konishi Y Yoshiyama M Takamori T Saida the Japanese FK506 MG Study Group . end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end.
end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. .J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 200576448450. doi 10.1136/jnnp.2004.042176Efficacy and safety of long term use of FK506 24.5 mg/ day for a maximum of two years were evaluated in 12 patients with generalised myasthenia gravis MG. At the end of the study eight patients 67% showed improvement in either MG score or Activities in Daily Living score and prednisolone dosage could be reduced in seven patients 58% with a mean reduction ratio of 37%.
We previously reported the results of a study of 16 weeks treatment with FK506 short term study for generalised MG. Of 19 patients nine patients 47% showed improvement in either MG or ADL activities of daily living score and significant reduction of anti-AChR antibody titres and interleukin 2 production.4 Twelve patients 63% continued treatment with FK506 for a maximum of two years for evaluation of the efficacy and safety of its long term use. The remaining seven patients 37% did not continue the treatment because in three patients the treatment did not show efficacy and in four patients there were procedural difficulties at the treatment facilities4 one patient moved away one case in which long term study was not approved by an institutional review board and two cases in which patient consent was not obtained. PATIENTS AND METHODS. A total of 12 patients with generalised MG underwent long term treatment with FK506 for a maximum of two years at eight hospitals in Japan between May 1997 and May 2000 in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and the Good Clinical Practice guidelines.
Patients receiving plasmapheresis n5 or high dose intravenous c-globulin therapy n1 entered this trial more than one month after therapy. Concurrent use of immunosuppressive agents other than prednisolone was prohibited during the trial. Azathioprine n6 ciclosporin n2 and cyclophosphamide n2 if taken were replaced by tacrolimus without a withdrawal period. Patients with disorders of the kidney liver pancreas or heart were excluded. Clinical examination and laboratory tests were performed at about two month intervals following the initial 16 week study reported previously.FK506 was given orally once daily after dinner at doses of 24.5 mg/day. Muscle strength was evaluated using a modified Besinger and Toyka MG score5 in order to assess symptoms of generalised MG. ADL score was assessed with a seven step rating scaleN grade 0 no symptoms N grade 1 presence of symptoms but no difficulty incarrying out daily activities office work or attending school N grade 2 office work or school activities cannot be fully performed including limitations caused by ocular symptoms N grade 3 office work school activities or outings are almost impossible and disorders of phonation or swallowing are sometimes encountered N grade 4 barely able to move around in a room or take .
For MG score a decrease of 3 or more points was considered an improvement while an increase of 3 or more points was considered as worsening. For ADL a change by 1 point or more was considered improvement/worsening. Titres of anti-AChR antibodies were measured by the immunoprecipitation method using human AChR labelled with 125I-a-bungarotoxin as antigen.4. RESULTS end. We treated 12 patients three men nine women age range 2859 years with generalised MG. The duration of disease was 431 years. All patients had undergone thymectomy 328 years before entry into this study and four patients 33% nos. 1 4 6 11 had non-invasive thymoma. Patient numbers were carried over from the previous study.4At the end of the long term study after 88104 weeks of treatment two patients nos. 4 12 who had shown no change in the short term study showed improvement one patient no. 3 who had exhibited no change in the short term study had worsening of MG score. Overall compared with scores at entry the total MG score improved in five patients nos. 1 4 12 16 17 and no change was observed in six nos. 6 8 11 13 14 15 table 1. All patients had ADL scores of 2 or 3 at entry with half of the patients showing improvement at the end of the study three patients 25% nos.
13 14 15 end. Thus 8/12 67% patients showed improvement in either MG or ADL score. In addition prednisolone dosage could be reduced with a mean reduction rate of 37% 8.357.0% in seven patients of whom five had improvement in ADL score and two had an unchanged ADL score. No significant relation was observed between anti-AChR antibody titre presence of thymoma duration of disease and MG or ADL improvement. The antibody titre reduced in 10/12 83% patients from a mean value of 21.1 nM to 13.6 nM Wilcoxons signed rank test p0.01. One patient no. 14 was seronegative but was diagnosed as having MG on the basis of clinical presentation positive edrophonium chloride Tensilon test decremental response on repetitive nerve stimulation and beneficial response to anticholinesterase medication. In eight patients 22 side effects were observed. One patient suffered from severe headache and eye pain that required discontinuation of FK506 therapy for 48 days but was subsequently able to be treated again with the same agent. Other side effects were minor and FK506 therapy could be continued without any specific measures for those side effects. An increase in neutrophil count and a decrease in lymphocyte count were observed in four patients 33%. Infection as a side effect was not observed.
When FK506 was given for a maximum of two years to 12 patients with generalised MG total MG or ADL score improved in eight patients 67%. This response rate is higher than that observed in our previous short term study 47%.4 Furthermore in three patients the ADL score improved by 2 or more none in the short term study and prednisolone dosage was successfully reduced in seven patients only three in the short term study. These findings strongly indicate the usefulness of long term treatment with FK506 and its advantages over short term treatment. Ciclosporin1 and FK5064 are characterised by more rapid onset of efficacy against MG than other immunosuppressants. However given the results of the current long term study including cases of late onset of efficacy after 26 weeks or more of treatment FK506 appears to have further improving potential with long term use.
MG clinical response was obtained in seven patients and corticosteroid dosage reduction by half or more was possible in seven patients.7 However reduction in anti-AchR antibody titre was observed in only 2/9 22% patients. In another retrospective study of ciclosporin for an average of 3.5 years 55/57 96% patients showed clinical improvement with 57% reduction in antibody level in nine patients and corticosteroids were discontinued or decreased in 36/38 95% patients who were taking these.8 Owing to differences in dosage no simple comparison can be made in terms of response rate and other variables between the above studies and the present FK506 long term study. Nevertheless long term FK506 therapy resulted in greater reduction in antibody titres 35.5% reduction in 10 patients 83%. Ciclosporin had more rapid onset of efficacy than azathioprine1 and FK506 was significantly effective for lower limb muscle strength two weeks after administration in a short term clinical trial.4Regarding adverse events long term ciclosporin therapy increased serum creatinine levels in 8/9 89%7 and 16/57 28% patients8 whereas long term FK506 therapy induced no increase in serum creatinine levels.
eralised MG in association with prednisolone reduction. In the future a more extensive and blinded study may be needed to establish the real efficiency of FK506 which would be another option of treatment of MG.Authors affiliations . end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. T Konishi T Saida Department of Neurology Utano National Hospital Kyoto Japan Y Yoshiyama Department of Neurology Chiba University School of Medicine Chiba Japan M Takamori Neurological Center Kanazawa-Nishi Hospital Kanazawa Japanwww.jnnp.comThis study was supported by a grant from Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co Ltd Osaka Japan.Competing interests none declaredOther participating members of the Japanese FK506 MG Study were E Mukai National Nagoya Hospital G Sobue Nagoya University School of Medicin. e F Kanda Kobe University School of Medicine J-I Kira Kyushu University School of Medicine T Nakamura Nagasaki University School of Medicine.Presented in part at the EFNS Congress in Vienna Austria October 2002.Correspondence to Dr T Konishi Department of Neurology Utano National Hospital 8 Ondoyama-cho Narutaki Kyoto 616-8255 Japan konishiunh.hosp.go.jpReceived 4 April 2004 In revised form 7 July 2004 Accepted 15 July 2004.
A 79-year-old male with myasthenia gravis on chronic prednisone therapy presented with progressive left leg pain and swelling and nonproductive cough for one month. Physical examination was significant for multiple irregular tender areas of induration in his bilateral lower extremities without overlying erythema. Laboratory data were significant for a white cell count of 12400/cmm. MRI showed multifocal abscesses in his bilateral lower extremities within the muscle beds which were more significant on the left Fig. 1 end. He underwent ultrasoundguided drainage of the large abscesses. Cultures grew Nocardia pseudobrasiliensis sensitive to moxifloxacin. CT chest showed bilateral pleural effusions and ground-glass opacities in the right upper lobe suggesting pulmonary nocardiosis with dissemination secondary to immunosuppression from chronic steroid use. The patient was started on moxifloxacin with a plan to treat for 12 months. The majority of patients with nocardial infection are immunocompromised the most common causes are glucocorticoid therapy malignancy organ transplantation and HIV infection. Disseminated nocardial infection typically presents with deep abscess especially in the lower extremities or CNS.
Suspect norcardiosis in patients with CNS soft tissue or cutaneous lesions and a concurrent pulmonary process. 1Internal Medicine Division Department of Medicine Creighton University School of Medicine Omaha NE USA 2Alegent-Creighton Health Creighton University Medical Center Omaha NE USA 3VA Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System Department of Neurological Sciences University of Nebraska Medical Center Omaha NE USA.KEY WORDS Nocardia myasthenia grav is  prednisone immunocompromised. J Gen Intern Med DOI 10.1007/s11606-013-2445-x  Society of General Internal Medicine 2013A 79-year-old male with myasthenia gravis on chronicprednisone therapy presented with progressive left leg pain and swelling and nonproductive cough for one month. Physical examination was significant for multiple irregular tender areas of induration in his bilateral lower extremities without overlying erythema. Laboratory data were significant for a white cell count of 12400/cmm.MRI showed multifocal abscesses in his bilateral lower extremities within the muscle beds which were more significant on the left Fig. 1 end. He underwent ultrasoundguided drainage of the large abscesses. Cultures grew Nocardia pseudobrasiliensis sensitive to moxifloxacin.
The patient was started on moxifloxacin with a plan to treat for 12 months.The majority of patients with nocardial infection are immunocompromised the most common causes are glucocorticoid therapy malignancy organ transplantation and HIV infection. Disseminated nocardial infection typically presents with deep abscess especially in the lower extremities or CNS.1 Treatment requires a long course of therapy 6 months for pulmonary or systemic nocardiosis and at least 12 months for immunocompromised patients.2Suspect norcardiosis in patients with CNS soft tissue or cutaneous lesions and a concurrent pulmonary process.Financial Disclosure The authors have no relevant funding to declare.Conflict of Interest The authors declare that they do not ha. ve a conflict of interest.Corresponding Author Nachiket Patel MD Internal Medicine Division Department of Medicine Creighton University School of Medicine 601 N 30th Street Suite 5850 Omaha NE 68131 USA e-mail nachiketjpatelgmail.com. K ARMON Y B LUM S L EVITE R B ARENBOIM E G ADOTH N. Myasthenia gravis and return to fl ying status. Aviat Space Environ Med 2010 8169  73. Introduction Myasthenia gravis MG is a common primary disorder of neuromuscular transmission.
Cases The diagnosis of MG in two aircrew members illustrates the range of severity for MG from isolated ocular symptoms to relentlessly progressive generalized disease as well as the unpredictability of the disease and diffi culty in treatment. Nevertheless both patients were returned to limited fl ying status. Discussion MG presents the potential for subtle progression with resulting effects on fl ight performance. In addition to the disease itself fl ight surgeons must also consider problems related to treatment and its side effects. Progression and exacerbations of MG can develop during the course of the disease requiring careful adjustments to treatment regimens. Taking all these factors into consideration including the unpredictability of this disease pilots with apparently stabilized MG should nevertheless be assigned only to duties during which the patient would be able to maintain and use his fl ying capabilities without risking the mission himself and other crewmembers. Delivered by Ingenta to Guest User IP 185.101.68.55 On Sun 26 Jun 2016 062505Copyright Aerospace Medical AssociationAviation Space and Environmental Medicine x Vol. 81 No end. 1 x January 2010 69CASE REPORTK ARMON Y B LUM S L EVITE R B ARENBOIM E G ADOTH N. Myasthenia gravis and return to fl ying status.
Although MG was once a fatal disease today treatment with immunomodulating agents and cholinomimetic medications with good supportive care have improved the prognosis and the ability of patients to adapt to their workplaces including the fl ight environment. Cases The diagnosis of MG in two aircrew members illustrates the range of severity for MG from isolated ocular symptoms to relentlessly progressive generalized disease as well as the unpredictability of the disease and diffi culty in treatment. Nevertheless both patients were returned to limited fl ying status. Discussion MG presents the potential for subtle progression with resulting effects on fl ight performance. In addition to the disease itself fl ight surgeons must also consider problems related to treatment and its side effects. Progression and exacerbations of MG can develop during the course of the disease requiring careful adjustments to treatment regimens. Taking all these factors into consideration including the unpredictability of this disease pilots with apparently stabilized MG should nevertheless be assigned only to duties during which the patient would be able to maintain and use his fl ying capabilities without risking the mission himself and other crewmembers.
An acquired immunological abnormality is the usual cause as MG is one of the best-characterized autoimmune diseases  7 . The leading mechanism underlying MG is the formation of antibodies against self acetylcholine ACh nicotinic postsynaptic receptors at the neuromuscular junction. A reduction in the number of ACh receptors results in a characteristic pattern of progressively reduced muscle strength with repeated use of the muscle fatigue and recovery of muscle strength following a period of rest  7  12 .MG is a relatively rare disease with the highest reported prevalence being 15000  6 . The reported prevalence of MG has risen in every decade since the 1950s with a fourfold increase during the last 40 yr  9  10 . The disease may begin at any age but onset in the fi rst decade is relatively rare   10%. The peak age of onset is between 20 and 30 yr in women and between 50 and 60 yr in men  7  12 . Under the age of 40 females are affected 2-3 times as often as males  9  10  after that the incidence in women returns to its prepuberty level whereas in males the incidence rises 32  9  11 .The epidemiology of MG changes as its diagnosis today rests on a more comprehensive workup  8 .
This manuscript was received for review in November 2008 . It was accepted for publication in October 2009 . Address correspondence and reprint requests to Yuval Karmon Department of Neurology Meir Medical Center 59 Tcharnichovsky St. Kfar Saba Israel yuvalk1hotmail.com .Reprint  Copyright  by the Aerospace Medical Association Alexandria VA.DOI 10.3357/ASEM.2470.2010. Myasthenia Gravis and Return to Flying Status. Yuval Karmon  Shany Blum  Ronen Levite  Erez Barenboim  and Natan Gadothtients present with different kinds of MG presentations at different ages. Moreover it seems that the average age of the  late onset  MG is also increasing  8 . This group includes patients with a higher rate of complications and treatment side effects. Regardless of the reasons physicians will probably be seeing more patients with MG especially in the late onset group.Weakness of the extra ocular muscles leading to double vision or ptosis is the presenting symptom in about 50% of patients and occurs in 90% during the course of the illn s  2  8  12 . Nevertheless the disease is strictly ocular in only 16% of patients and about 87% of patients will develop a generalized disease i.e. involving other non-ocular muscles within 13 mo of onset  12 .
Bulbar muscles are also commonly and severely affected and most patients may suffer from some degree of intermittent generalized weakness  12 . In 20% of MG patients bulbar muscles are the only muscles affected.There is little information on MG in aviation medicine and the literature lacks reports that consider limitations or guidelines regarding pilots with the disease. Morbidity related to MG includes double vision disturbed phonation/articulation because of bulbar muscle weakness or generalized muscle fatigue. Thus the disease may without warning affect maintenance of proper vision vocal communication skills so needed for air traffi c control and motor dexterity all essential to fl ying an aircraft. We present here two cases of Israeli Air Force pilots who developed MG during their military service. One was a mild case that responded well to treatment while the second had a more complicated course both are still fl ying as active-duty military pilots.Case 1A 47-yr-old male fi ghter pilot was evaluated at the IAF Aeromedical Center for blurred vision. As part of the workup for diplopia serology for acetylcholineDelivered by Ingenta to Guest User IP 185.101.68.55 On Sun 26 Jun 2016 062505Copyright Aerospace Medical Association70 Aviation Space and Environmental Medicine x Vol.
1 x January 2010receptor antibody AchR Ab was taken and found negative. Electromyography at that time was nonrevealing. A provocative test with edrophonium chloride was positive and a clinical diagnosis of MG was made. Treatment with a short course of prednisone improved the symptoms with disappearance of the diplopia. During the following years he had several attacks of blurred vision the longest lasting 2 mo during which he took prednisone with good improvement and later tapering of the drug. During exacerbations he was grounded resuming fl ying as a backseat pilot only after remission was achieved.The patient has reported very few episodes of diplopia or blurred vision during the last 9 yr. He experiences brief episodes of blurred vision upon awakening while sitting as a passenger in the cabin on commercial fl ights. He does not fl y while having diplopia and it responds completely to a short course of prednisone. The patient has been followed for 15 yr while he has continued to fl y fi ghter aircraft as a senior instructor pilot.Case 2A 27-yr-old previously healthy helicopter navigator was evaluated at the IAF Aeromedical Center for  eye weakness  and slight nauseas for the previous 4 d.
The medical records showed that the pilot reported the problem to his medical caregiver 1 d after the symptoms started and stopped fl ying immediately. Neuro-ophthalmologic examination disclosed right superior oblique and lateral rectus weakness. Neurological examination showed prominent left ptosis without fatigue evident but less prominent in old photos. A cover test and testing for the Bielschowsky phenomenon a spontaneous head tilt characteristic of an ipsilateral fourth nerve lesion were negative. A diagnosis of left trochlear neuropathy prompted computerized tomography CT of the head and orbits which was normal. Single fi ber electromyography SFEMG by stimulation of the left facial nerve and recording from the left orbicularis oculi showed normal  jitter  a measure of the degree of change in time duration between stimulus and response with no blocking.A week later fatigability clearly manifested itself in the left eyelid as increased ptosis on repetitive tonic eyelid contractions and the patient also reported that the ptosis improved dramatically after naps. A provocative test with edrophonium chloride was positive. A clinical diagnosis of MG was made and treatment with pyridostigmine bromide Mestinon w  60 mg t.i.d.
Limited abduction of the left eye which was not apparent on previous examination was now evident. The dose of Mestinon was increased to 120 mg b.i.d. with minimal side effects but with little improvement.A nonenhanced mediastinal CT revealed no thymic abnormalities and EMG of the masseter muscle was diffi cult to interpret due to poor cooperation. Testing revealed normal titers of human fetal and adult AchR Ab. Treatment with prednisone was started with gradual increase up to 40 mg daily. On the third day of treatment the ptosis diminished considerably and diplopia was present during shorter periods the latter resolved completely a month later. The chewing diffi culties resolved too and Mestinon was gradually discontinued.During this remission prednisone was maintained for a year and tapered to 40 mg every other day. Treatment with azathioprin was offered as a steroid-sparing drug 3 yr after MG was diagnosed but was rejected by the patient due to intolerable nausea and vomiting. He preferred to continue with prednisone. The patient resumed fl ying 2 yr after the initial diagnosis with a waiver to fl y only as a navigator in a two-seat transport helicopter.
Treatment with alendronate calcium and vitamin D was added.The following year the dosage of prednisone was increased to 35 mg a day due to generalized muscle weakness especially involving the neck muscles. The medical records again showed that the pilot arrived at the medical facility 1-2 d after his condition worsened with the above symptoms for which he stopped fl ying. A repeat CT of the mediastinum and AchR Ab levels both remained normal and identical to the fi ndings 5 yr earlier. An episode of acute tonsillitis with fever necessitated grounding for a couple of weeks until complete improvement appeared.Repeated stimulated SFEMG of the orbicularis oculi showed prolonged jitter in two of the recordings with two blockings. Intravenous immune globulin initially 2 gm z kg 2 1 for 5 d and later 0.4 gm z kg 2 1 monthly was added as a steroid-sparing treatment approximately 5 yr after MG was fi rst diagnosed. The pilot has now been followed for 13 yr and is currently involved in activeduty fl ying. DISCUSSION. The literature regarding MG and fl ying is scant. Guliuzza described a 26-yr-old air-evacuation technician with ocular myasthenia whose symptoms completely resolved without treatment  4 .
MG is an acquired disorder of the neuromuscular junction. Clinically MG can imitate various other disorders thus delaying signifi cantly the diagnosis and treatment. As ocular symptoms exist in most patients MG can mimic and present with almost any ocular motility dysfunction. Because it might involve ocular motor III IV VI and bulbar V IX-XII cranial nerves the differential diagnosis of MG is vast andDelivered by Ingenta to Guest User IP 185.101.68.55 On Sun 26 Jun 2016 062505Copyright Aerospace Medical Associationincludes motor neuron disease like syndromes space occupying lesions compressing different cranial nerves sarcoidosis and eventually myopathies with specifi c predilection to cranial musculature such as polymyositis oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy and mi. tochondrial myopathies  8  12 . Other great mimickers the primary care physician should be aware of include hyper/hypothyroidism botulism and Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome  8  12   Table I .Diagnosis of MG is often tedious and based on the combination of symptoms physical signs and diagnostic tests. A positive edrophonium Tensilon test is highly suggestive of MG but is positive only in 70% of patients  7  12 .
Repetitive nerve stimulation which is a less specifi c test and SFEMG are two additional tests used to diagnose MG.SFEMG is a selective EMG recording technique that allows identifi cation of action potentials from individual muscle fi bers. When an SFEMG electrode is positioned to record from two or more muscle fi bers that belong to the same motor unit activated by the subject the neuromuscular jitter can be calculated as variations in the time intervals between pairs of action potentials from these fi bers. An increased jitter number value therefore is the pathologic hallmark signifying a prolonged neuromuscular transmission interval  12 . SFEMG demonstrates increased jitter in virtually all patients with MG and is therefore most valuable clinically in patients with suspected MG in whom results of other tests of neuromuscular transmission and AchR antibody measurements are normal.The lack of a single specifi c diagnostic test for MG makes the diagnosis even more diffi cult. Serology for Ach receptor antibodies is positive in only 50% of patients with ocular MG and in most generalized MG patients yet was negative in both our cases. SFEMG which is one of the most sensitive tests for MG was negative at the early stages in the second case.
Morbidity in MG results from intermittent impairment of muscle strength which in early stages can cause speech problems double vision and generalized weakness and as stated earlier jeopardizes fl ying capabilities. Morbidity in advanced stages may involve aspirations recurrent pneumonias and falls. Diagnosis of MG is disqualifying from fl ying duties according to the policy of the Federal Aviation Administration United States Air Force Navy and Army  1  3 . A waiver is most likely to be granted only after the patient is in complete remission and receives no active therapy  13  15 .In accordance with well-accepted standards of aeromedical practice to be considered acceptable for fl ying duty a medical condition medication or treatment must 1 not pose a risk of sudden incapacitation 2 not interfere with the individuals ability to perform fl ight duties nor impact the safe operation of the aircraft to include egress if necessary 3 not interfere with t.
er MG jeopardizes the fl ying capabilities of the pilot. Symptoms of MG can affect the fl ying capabilities of pilots in different ways. First pilots with ocular symptoms can experience diplopia during fl ight in different situations aggravated by fatigue. Second speech and articulation can be disturbed i.e. nasal speech and result in a degraded communication over the radio e.g. air traffi c control. Last generalized weakness may pose a diffi culty in controlling the aircraft and maintaining prolonged postures. As in our cases pilots with an active disease or exacerbation should be disqualifi ed from fl ying.As a general rule if weakness remains limited to the ocular muscles after 2 yr there is a 90% likelihood that the disease will not generalize  8  enabling decision making in many cases Case 1. In cases in which progression is noted from the beginning or in the fi rst 2 yrDelivered by Ingenta to Guest User IP 185.101.68.55 On Sun 26 Jun 2016 062505Copyright Aerospace Medical Associationa longer follow-up period is needed to ascertain that disease course is stable. When considering waiver return to fl ight should be allowed only after a certain time period adjusted for each case separately.
An acute illness and certain medications may exacerbate weakness quickly precipitating a myasthenic crisis and rapid respiratory compromise. This pattern of weakness has great implications for fl ying and depends greatly on symptoms time of the day timing of cholinomimetic medication and the level of effort of the involved muscles.Sudden incapacitation due to fatigue during fl ight might become a major risk especially when extraocular muscles are involved as diplopia can disturb fl ying capabilities. Prediction of future exacerbations even during treatment and close follow-up is diffi cult. However disease progression usually manifests during the fi rst years of the disease. Yet in our patients no sudden fatigue of any involved muscles was observed or reported. Periods of disease exacerbations had a diurnal pattern during which our patients refrained from fl ying. The degree of diurnal variation will obviously affect the extent to which an aviator is able to return to fl ying duties. Close follow-up including regular 3-mo visits are essential for monitoring changes.Emphasis should be given to known triggers in the natural history of MG namely exacerbation related to the emergence of a new thymoma new hypo/hyperthyroidism and an intercurrent infection  8  12 .
Among the medications included there are some that most probably will cause exacerbation telithromycin and others that commonly cause it curare-like agents Botulinum aminoglycosides fl uoroquinolones quinine procaineamide. Other drugs lithium beta and calcium blockers and macrolides antibiotics rarely cause exacerbation but still should be used with caution  8 . Yet none of these drugs is absolutely contraindicated in MG if needed to treat a serious disorder.A second major area affecting fl ying status is the treatment involved. Management of MG involves a graded approach. Mild or initial symptoms may be managed with acetyl-choline esterase inhibitors. When signifi cant weakness is present an oral immunosuppressive medication is administered  Table II .Thymectomy is a treatment option that may have particular relevance for aviators. The role of the thymus in the pathogenesis of MG is not entirely clear but 75% of patients with MG have some degree of thymus abnormality e.g. hyperplasia in 85% of cases thymoma in 15% of cases  7  12 . Given the immunologic function of the thymus and the improvement in the clinical condition of certain patients following thymectomy  8  the thymus is suspected to have a key role in autoantibody formation  Table II .
This operation if helpful might become a better option for pilots by increasing the stability of MG and lessening the need for medications.Additionally medications used to control the disease may cause side effects  Table II  such as osteoporosis diabetes mellitus and obesity from steroids and hypersalivation and diarrhea from acetylcholine esterase inhibitors. These must be addressed when the chronic MG patient is concerned. Prescription of other medications and concomitant illnesses can also promote exacerbation. Primary care physicians should be aware that treat-Delivered by Ingenta to Guest User IP 185.101.68.55 On Sun 26 Jun 2016 062505Copyright Aerospace Medical AssociationAviation Space and Environmental Medicine x Vol. 81 No end. 1 x January 2010 73ment with immunosuppressants necessitates Mantoux screening and if positive tuberculosis prophylaxis and sometimes treatment to prevent steroid-induced osteoporosis.
would be able to maintain and use his fl ying capabilities without risking the mission himself or other crewmembers. A second-seat navigator especially in the multi-crew transport platforms seems to be a suitable assignment but only after stability of disease is achieved.A waiver was granted in our patients after consideration of their excellent compliance with medications awareness to signs and symptoms and stability of disease during a considerable time course. A person with MG who may conceivably be medically qualifi ed for single-seat high-performance aircraft piloting would be an ocular MG case controlled without medications and where symptom progression is gradual. Good compliance and awareness of symptoms as happened in our patients was a very important contributor to their repositioning as pilots.In summary although not a fatal disease any more the MG patient presents diffi cult issues for the Medical Board who needs to decide whether to approve an affected pilot for fl ying duties. Due to the lack of literature which may help in reaching an evidence-based decision and a relatively rare known prevalence of the disease in aviators and specifi cally pilots a case by case assessment is needed. We therefore present the experience of the IAF with two pilots diagnosed with MG.
No adverse events affecting personal health fl ying safety or mission completion have occurred to date over the accumulative 28 person-years of follow-up on these two pilots. ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Authors and affi liations Yuval Karmon M.D. Department of Neurology Meir Medical Center Kfar-Saba Israel Shany Blum M.D. M.Sc. Faculty of Medicine Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Haifa Israel Ronen Levite M.D. and Erez Barenboim M.D. Israeli Air Force Aeromedical Center Tel Hashomer Israel and Natan Gadoth M.D. Department of Neurology Mayanei Hayeshua Hospital Bnei Barak Israel. Myasthenia gravis and a rare complication of chemotherapy. Department of Clinical Oncology University of Malaya Medical Centre Lembah Pantai Kuala Lumpur Malaysia. Christina V T Ng MB BSFRACP Consultant Medical Oncologist. Reprints will not be available from the author. Correspondence Dr Christina V T Ng Department of Clinical Oncology University of Malaya Medical Centre Jalan Universiti Lembah Pantai Kuala Lumpur 59 100 Malaysia. christinavtnghotmail.com The Medical Journal of Australia ISSN 0025729X 7 February 2005 182 3 120-120 The Medical Journal of Australia 2005 www.mja.com.au Notable cases disease exacerbation by any agent that impedes n transmission.
Christina V T Ng MB BSFRACP Consultant Medical Oncologist. Reprints will not be available from the author. Correspondence Dr Christina V T Ng Department of Clinical Oncology University of Malaya Medical Centre Jalan Universiti Lembah Pantai Kuala Lumpur 59 100 Malaysia. christinavtnghotmail.comThe Medical Journal of Australia ISSN 0025- 729X 7 February 2005 182 3 120-120 The Medical Journal of Australia 2005 www.mja.com.au Notable casesdisease exacerbation by any agent that impedes n transmission.2. Clinical record. In February a 49-year-old self-employed builder d and was subsequently found to have invasive thymoWe describe a patient with myasthenia gravis and thymoma who developed recurrent severe myasthenic crises associated with the use of combination chemotherapy. MJA 2005 182 120yasthenia gravis MG is an uncommon immunological disorder of the neuromuscular junction that is characterised by abnormal weakness and fatigability of some or allstriated voluntary muscles. It is the most common autoimmune disorder in patients with thymoma in whom the incidence is 30%50%.1In patients with MG up to 90% of their acetylcholine receptors may be destroyed by autoantibodies predisposing them toeuromusculareveloped MG ma. This wasincompletely excised.
His MG had been well controlled on pyridostigmine 60 mg twice daily. However within 24 hours of the first dose of chemotherapy he developed a severe myasthenic crisis with respiratory failure requiring intubation. This was managed with dexamethasone 8 mg daily and plasmapheresis and was thought to be due to the highdose dexamethasone given prior to chemotherapy. In addition he had developed a chest infection a couple of days before starting chemotherapy which may have contributed to the respiratory failure. A methicillin-sensitive Staphyloccus aureus was isolated from sputum cultures. This was managed upon hospitalisation with intravenous ceftriaxone 1 g daily for 7 days.In June the patient received his second cycle of chemotherapy this time without dexamethasone. Within several hours he developed increasing breathlessness with bulbar dysfunction and generalised weakness. Despite treatment with steroids and intravenous neostigmine his respiratory state continued to deteriorate necessitating intubation and subsequent plasmapheresis.No further cycles of chemotherapy were administered. A restaging computed tomography scan at the time revealed minimal residual tumour and mediastinal lymphadenopathy.
Discussion. A review of the literature revealed no previous report of MG unmasked or aggravated by chemotherapeutic agents. However several other classes of drugs have been associated with exacerbation of pre-existing MG. Aminoglycosides have been most frequently associated with drug-induced neuromuscular blockade. However agents most likely to cause aggravation of MG when overused are anticholinesterase drugs high-dose prednisolone anaesthetic agents and neuromuscular blockers. Immunosuppressive drugs have also been implicated3 and transient worsening of MG by high-dose corticosteroids is commonly encountered.4 Miller and colleagues5 found a positive correlation between serum methylprednisolone sodium succinate concentrations and deterioration in neuromuscular transmission. No effect on acetylcholinereceptor antibodies was noted. They speculated that the effects of steroids on MG arise from dissociation of nerve excitation and muscle contraction.Our patient developed recurrent severe myasthenic crises despite the omission of steroids in his second cycle of chemotherapy. It is highly likely that at least one of the three chemotherapeutic agents used had a direct inhibitory effect on neuromuscular transmission aggravating pre-existing MG.
Alternatively it may be due to postsynaptic blockade the drugs may bind competitively to the acetylcholine or may interfere with ionic conductance across the muscle membrane.7 A combination of preand post-synaptic blockade may also occur. Competing interests. None identified. Oral corticosteroid dosing regimen and long-term prognosis in generalised myasthenia gravis a multicentre cross-sectional study in Japan. Imai T et al. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2017015. doi10.1136/jnnp-2017-316625 AbstrAct Objective We examined the correlation between the dosing regimen of oral prednisolone PSL and the achievement of minimal manifestation status or better on PSL 5 mg/day lasting >6 months the treatment target in patients with generalised myasthenia gravis MG. Methods We classified 590 patients with generalised MG into high-dose n237 intermediate-dose n187 and low-dose n166 groups based on the oral PSL dosing regimen and compared the clinical characteristics previous treatments other than PSL and prognosis between three groups. The effect of oral PSL dosing regimen on the achievement of the treatment target was followed for 3 years of treatment.
Early combined use of fast-acting treatment OR 2.19 after 2 years P0.02 OR 2.11 after 3 years P0.04 or calcineurin inhibitors OR 2.09 after 2 years P0.03 OR 2.36 after 3 years P0.02 was associated positively with achievement of treatment target. conclusion A low-dose PSL regimen with early combination of other treatment options may ensure earlier achievement of the treatment target in generalised MG. 1ImaiT etal. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2017015. doi10.1136/jnnp-2017-316625AbstrAct Objective We examined the correlation between the dosing regimen of oral prednisolone PSL and the achievement of minimal manifestation status or better on PSL 5 mg/day lasting >6 months the treatment target in patients with generalised myasthenia gravis MG. Methods We classified 590 patients with generalised MG into high-dose n237 intermediate-dose n187 and low-dose n166 groups based on the oral PSL dosing regimen and compared the clinical characteristics previous treatments other than PSL and prognosis between three groups. The effect of oral PSL dosing regimen on the achievement of the treatment target was followed for 3 years of treatment.
Early combined use of fast-acting treatment OR 2.19 after 2 years P0.02 OR 2.11 after 3 years P0.04 or calcineurin inhibitors OR 2.09 after 2 years P0.03 OR 2.36 after 3 years P0.02 was associated positively with achievement of treatment target. conclusion A low-dose PSL regimen with early combination of other treatment options may ensure earlier achievement of the treatment target in generalised MG.IntrOductIOn Long-term full remission without treatment is uncommon in myasthenia gravis MG.15 Only <10% of patients with MG achieve Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA postintervention status of complete stable remission CSR.47 Therefore treatment strategies should consider the probability of prolonged treatment and aim for maintai. ning health-related quality of life QOL and mental health.8 The recent international consensus guidance for management of MG proposes minimal manifestation MM status or better as a goal for the treatment of MG.9 Our research group has also proposed that MM status or better with prednisolone PSL 5 mg/day or lower MM-or-better-5mgmay be a more practical treatment goal than CSR and achievable by more patients and that this goal yields patient satisfaction essentially equivalent to CSR based on pati.
However there are no reported data supporting the claim that treatment with high-dose oral steroids increases the rate of complete remission in MG and epidemiological research shows no change in complete remission rate before and after use of oral steroids became widespread.2 Many patients continue to have impaired QOL because of insufficient improvement and long-term steroid-related adverse effects.1 11 Furthermore our previous survey showed that higher PSL dose and longer PSL treatment do not . ensure better outcome.12 Even in the international consensus guidance there is no internationally accepted standard dosing regimen for oral corticosteroids.9We conducted a multicentre cross-sectional study to examine the correlation between the dosing regimen of oral PSL and the achievement of practical treatment goal. Patients with MG were classified based on the dosing regimen of oral PSL during the whole course of treatment into three groups high-dose intermediate-dose and low-dose groups.
To avoid potential bias we studied consecutive patients over a short period of 4 months in this multicentre study. We identified 1088 patients with various stages of MG who attended the hospitals between April and July 2015. Among these patients 638 patients with generalised MG were evaluated. Since we classifiedRESEARch PAPEROral corticosteroid dosing regimen and long-term prognosis in generalised myasthenia gravis a multicentre cross-sectional study inJapan Tomihiro Imai12 Kimiaki Utsugisawa3 hiroyuki Murai4 Emiko Tsuda2 Yuriko Nagane3 Yasushi Suzuki5 Naoya Minami6 Akiyuki Uzawa7 Naoki Kawaguchi8 Masayuki Masuda9 Shingo Konno10 hidekazu Suzuki11 Tetsuya Akaishi12 Masashi Aoki12neuromuscularto cite ImaiT UtsugisawaK Muraih etal. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry Published Online First please include Day Month Year. doi10.1136/jnnp-2017316625For numbered affiliations see end of article.correspondence to Professor Tomihiro Imai Department of Occupational Therapy Sapporo Medical University School of health Sciences chuo-ku Sapporo 060-8556 Japan toimai sapmed. ac end. jpReceived 8 June 2017 Revised 7 October 2017 Accepted 6 November 2017JNNP Online First published on November 24 2017 as 10.1136/jnnp-2017-316625Copyright Article author or their employer 2017.
J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2017015. doi10.1136/jnnp-2017-316625patients by PSL dose regimen at the time of treatment initiation we excluded 48 patients whose PSL dosing regimens appeared not to be decided at the beginning of treatment or were changed during the course of treatment. Finally 590 patients with MG were analysed. All these patients provided written informed consent to be subject in the present study.Diagnosis of MG was based on clinical findings fluctuating symptoms with easy fatigability and recovery after rest with amelioration of symptoms after intravenous administration of anticholinesterase decremental muscle response to a train of low-frequency repetitive nerve stimuli or the presence of antibodies against skeletal muscle acetylcholine receptor AChRAb or muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSKAb. Serum AChRAb levels were determined by a radioimmunoassay using 125I--bungarotoxin and levels 0.5 nM were regarded as positive. Serum MuSKAb levels were measured using a commercially available radioimmunoprecipitation assay Cardiff UK.
Treatment-related data were also extracted including MGFA postintervention status6 history of thymectomy thymic histology current PSL dose peak PSL dose PSL dosing regimen total dose of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone HMP use of calcineurin inhibitors CNIs use of pyridostigmine plasma exchange/plasmapheresis PE/PP intravenous immunoglobulin Ig and early fast-acting treatment EFT.14 EFT was defined as the treatment strategy that attempted to achieve MM status early using fast-acting ther. apy such as PE/PP alone PE/PP combined with HMP HMP alone or intravenous Ig starting within 6 months of treatment initiation and maintain the improved clinical status with the lowest possible dose of oral PSL.15 We did not analyse other oral immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil because use of these agents for MG is currently not covered bythe Japanese health insurance system. The PSL dosing regimens for the whole course of treatment were classified into three categories high-dose regimen with an escalation and de-escalation schedule intermediate-dose regimen and low-dose regimen. We set a maximum dose of oral PSL for each dosing regimen.
In the low-dose group PSL was maintained at a maximum dose of 20 mg/day usually 10 mg/day. When the symptoms did not improve sufficiently even when the dose was titrated up to 20 mg/day other treatment options such as CNIs and EFT PE/PP intravenous Ig or HMP were added to improve residual symptoms rapidly. The intermediate-dose group included patients who were treated with PSL 20 mg/day for longer than 3 months or who did not belong to either the high-dose or low-dose group. In all patients the PSL dosing regimen was decided at the time of treatment initiation and was not changed during the course of treatment.All clinical information and blood samples were collected after informed consent was obtained from each subject.statistical analysis The clinical immunological and therapeutic parameters were compared between three groups using one-way analysis of variance ANOVA followed by Tukey-Kramer test for continuous variables or Pearsons 2 test for categorical variables. Also multivariate logistic regression modelling was performed to determine independent predictive factors for MM-or-better-5mg at 1 2 and 3 years after treatment was started.
All continuous data are expressed as meanSD. A probability <0.05 was consideredtable 1 Differences in characteristics of present status in patients classified by oral PSL dosing regimenhigh-dose groupn237 Intermediate-dose groupn187 Low-dose groupn166 P valueDemographicsGender % women 63.3 68.6 71.9 0.32Age years range 57.115.41888 56.416.01690 59.616.71991 0.16Age of onset years range 42.316.80.976 46.416.9177 51.119.4089 <0.0001Disease duration years range 15.010.0160 10.18.90.147.4 8.99.10.355 <0.0001Antibody statusAChRAb-positive % 88. 7 86.2 76.0 0.002MuSKAb-positive % 3.8 2.7 3.0 0.35Thymus statusThymectomy % 83.1 65.8 36.1 <0.0001Thymoma % 29.1 38.5 22.9 0.006Postintervention statusMM or better % 52.9 50.3 56.7 NSI or worse % 47.0 49.8 41.4 NSCurrent treatmentDaily dose of PSL mg range 4.55.1040 7.15.8030 4.83.2015 <0.0001Combination of CNIs % 65.1 69.6 65.9 0.59Daily dose of tacrolimus mg range 1.81.405 2.11.204 2.21.103 0.09Daily dose of pyridostigmine mg range 58.279.40360 80.777.70240 72.577.10240 0.003Significant diffe. rence detected by one-way ANOVA followed by the Tukey-Kramer test. Pearsons 2 test.
J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2017015. doi10.1136/jnnp-2017-316625statistically significant. The JMP statistical program SAS Institute Cary North Carolina USA was used for data analysis.resuLts differences in characteristics of patients classified by oral PsL dosing regimen Of 590 patients 237 were classified in the high-dose group 187 in the intermediate-dose group and 166 in the low-dose group. The age of onset high-dose group vs intermediate-dose group vs low-dose group 42.316.8 vs 46.416.9 vs 51.119.4 years P<0.0001 the rate of thymectomy 83.1% vs 65.8% vs 36.1% P<0.0001 and the prevalence of thymoma 29.1% vs 38.5% vs 22.9% P0.006 were significantly different between any two of the three groups table 1. Disease duration was significantly longer in the high-dose group 15.010.0 years P<0.0001. The prevalence of AChRAb positivity was significantly lower in the low-dose group 76.0% P0.002. The current daily dose of PSL was significantly higher in the intermediate-dose group 7.15.8 mg P<0.0001 compared with the other two groups but not different between high-dose and low-dose groups 4.55.1 vs 4.83.2 mg. The daily dose of pyridostigmine was 58.279.4 mg in the high-dose group and was significantly lower P0.003 than 80.777.7 mg in the intermediate-dose group.
ANOVA followed by Tukey-Kramer test also showed that the worst QMG score for the entire disease period was significantly higher P<0.0001 in the high-dose group 18.67.9 than in the intermediate-dose group 14.46.4 or the low-dose group 13.96.3 table 2. The proportion of patients who maintained MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months was significantly higher P<0.0001 in thelow-dose group than in the intermediate-dose or high-dose group during 3 years after treatment was started low-dose group vs intermediate-dose group or high-dose group 52.1% vs 11.4% or 9.6% after 1 year of treatment 61.2% vs 30.8% or 29.9% after 2 years 64.1% vs 36.4% or 44.1% after 3 years. Patients in the high-dose group received a smaller cumulative HMP dose compared with patients in the low-dose group 12.925.8 vs 23.137.8 g P0.01. Treatment with PE/PP was significantly infrequent P0.02 in the intermediate-dose group 30.3% than in the high-dose group 43.7% or the low-dose group 40.7%.
The low-dose group showed remarkably higher rates of combined uses of EFT and CNIs.Independent predictors for MM-or-better-5mg identified by multivariate logistic regression modelling Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified low-dose regimen as the sole independent positive predictor to achieve MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months after 1 year of treatment table 3. The ORs were 10.4 95% CI 4.54 to 25.2 P<0.0001 for low-dose versus high-dose regimen and 13.4 95% CI 5.69 to 34.8 P<0.0001 for low-dose versus intermediate-dose regimen. The analysis also identified EFT early use of CNIs and low-dose regimen as significant independent positive predictors to achieve MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months after 2 and 3 years of treatment. The ORs 95% CI were 2.19 1.11 to 4.42 after 2 years P0.02 and 2.11 1.03 to 4.44 after 3 years P0.04 for EFT 2.09 1.09 to 4.06 after 2 years P0.03 and 2.36 1.13 to 5.09 after 3 years P0.02 for early use of CNIs 2.75 1.31 to 5.88 after 2 years P0.007 and 1.86 0.79 to 4.49 after 3 years P0.15 not significant for low-dose versus highdose regimen and 3.99 1.86 to 8.81 after 2 years P0.0003 and 4.92 2.00 to 12.6 after 3 years P0.0004 for low-dose versus intermediate-dose regimen.
or 6 monthsAfter 1 year of treatment % 9.6 11.4 52.1 <0.0001After 2 years of treatment % 29.9 30.8 61.2 <0.0001After 3 years of treatment % 44.1 36.4 64.1 <0.0001Previous treatments other than PSLAccumulated dose of HMP g range 12.925.80157.5 17.722.20135 23.137.80318 0.01PE/PP % 43.7 30.3 40.7 0.02Intravenous Ig % 19.3 26.7 20.4 0.16EFT % 31.4 39.8 53.6 <0.0001Early use of CNIs % 12.2 29.8 47.1 <0.0001EFT is use of fast-acting therapy such as PP often combined with HMP HMP alone or intravenous . Ig within 6 months of treatment initiation. Pearsons 2 test. Significant difference detected by one-way ANOVA followed by the Tukey-Kramer test . ANOVA analysis of variance CNIs calcineurin inhibitors EFT early fast-acting treatment HMP high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone Ig immunoglobulin MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months minimal manifestation status or better on prednisolone 5 mg/day lasting 6 months the treatment target PE plasma exchange PP plasmapheresis PSL prednisolone QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis.4 ImaiT etal. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2017015.
eralised MG achieve complete remission in spite of the therapeutic environment and that some patients with MG may be good responders to any treatment.2 Even in the recent consensus guidance for management of MG9 the panel did not explicitly address chronic MG management which generates the most common questions from patients how long should I take steroids and at what doses.17 The present study provides class IV evidence and our multivariate logistic regression analysis identified low-dose regim. en of oral PSL as a positive predictor of maintaining the favourable status of MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months treatment goal. In a previous domestic survey we already reported that high-dose regimen of oral PSL did not correlate with achievement of a MM-or-better status.12 The present results further show that low-dose regimen of oral PSL is superior to high-dose and intermediate-dose regimens in maintaining the treatment goal for 2 and 3 years respectively. After 1 year of treatment <10% of high-dose patients compared with >50% of low-dose patients achieved MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months table 2 probably in part due to the difficulty of reducing the dose to 5 mg in the high-dose group.
After 3 years no differences in the rate of MM status and current treatments including daily PSL dose were observed between the two groups table 1. On the other hand the low-dose versus intermediate-dose OR for achieving treatment goal remained significantly high even after 3 years of treatment table 3. The present findings thus show that low-dose regimen may accomplish the treatment target earlier and maintain the favourable status more effectively than higher-dose regimens.Furthermore our data suggest a possible role of low-dose regimen to suppress symptom aggravation through the entire course of disease. We analysed the maximum severity during the entire disease by analysing the worst MGFA clinical classificationand worst QMG score in patients classified by PSL dosing regimen but these values did not necessarily reflect the severity at the beginning of treatment. Therefore lower maximum severity based on these assessments observed in the low-dose regimen group did not always indicate that these patients had less severe disease at the beginning of treatment but may suggest that low-dose regimen possibly suppresses disease aggravation.
While immunotherapy is probably more effective against MG during the earlier stages of disease12 15 18 early achievement of treatment goal possibly leads to better long-term outcome. The proportion of patients who started EFT and/or CNIs within 6 months of treatment was higher in those receiving low-dose regimen of oral PSL. In addition EFT and early combined use of CNIs were positive predictive factors to achieve MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months at 2 and 3 years after starting of MG treatment table 3. The most important point may be early combined use of these treatment options. The Japanese clinical guidelines for MG recommend that the use of CNIs ciclosporin and tacrolimus in patients with shorter disease duration.8 This may be reflected by the much higher rates of early use of CNIs in the low-dose group with shorter disease duration than high-dose group presumably with expectation of their steroid-sparing effects.19 Previous surveys recommended that the PSL dose should be decreased by combining with modalities such as PE/PP or intravenous Ig2022 when MM-or-better is .
In fact the rates of PE/PP and intravenous Ig were not significantly different between the high-dose and low-dose groups table 2 and PE/PP and intravenous Ig were not identified as independent predictors of achieving MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months in logistic regression analysis data not shown. Also the rate of CNI cotreatment at the time of the study was not significantly different between three groups with different oral PSL dosing regimens table 1 and current CNI cotreatment had no significant effect on achieving a favourable status in multivariate logistic regression modelling data not shown. Nagane et al18 reported that disease severity daily dose of PSL and AChRAb level were reduced following CNI treatment and suggested that poor CNI responders maytable 3 Independent predictors of MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months identified by multivariate logistic modellingParametersOr 95% cIP valueAfter 1 year After 2 years After 3 yearsEFT 2.04 0.89 to 4.780.09 2.19 1.11 to 4.420.02 2.11 1.03 to 4.440.04Early use of CNIs 1.59 0.78 to 3.240.20 2.09 1.09 to 4.060.03 2.36 1.13 to 5.090.02Oral PSL dosi.
Factors that did not show significance after being run through the model are not shown. EFT is use of fast-acting therapy such as PP often combined with HMP HMP alone or intravenous Ig within 6 months of treatment initiation. An independent predictor to achieve the treatment target. CNIs calcineurin inhibitors EFT early fast-acting treatment HMP high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone Ig immunoglobulin MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months minimal manifestation status or better on PSL 5 mg/day lasting >6 months the treatment target PE/PP plasma exchange/ plasmapheresis PSL prednisolone QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis.5ImaiT etal. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2017015. doi10.1136/jnnp-2017-316625be the result of alterations in immunopathological conditions during long-term disease or longer and more severe disease than that in responders. Therefore CNI should be given to patients with factors known to enhance susceptibility to these drugs such as early-stage disease.23On the other hand the accumulated dose of HMP24 was significantly higher in the low-dose group than in the highdose group. The low-dose regimen was often combined with the other treatment options including HMP.
It makes clinical sense that HMP should be used to obtain early clinical response by its rapid actions.Multivariate logistic regression analysis detected no significant variables from demographics antibody status and thymus status which predict MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months. However we recognised considerable differences in characteristics of patients among the dosing regimen groups table 1. The low-dose group had older onset age shorter disease duration higher AChRAb-negative rate and lower thymectomy rate. These data suggest that low-dose regimen tends to be used in more recent patients because low-dose regimen is often combined with CNIs and intravenous Ig and these agents for generalised MG have been covered by the Japanese health insurance system only in recent years tacrolimus in 2000 ciclosporin in 2006 and intravenous Ig in 2011.
that for oral PSL partly because MG is heterogeneous and no one treatment approach is best for all patients.9 However we believe this nationwide survey provides useful information for MG patients in spite of several limitations including the retrospective and unblinded design. We did not collect the data on the cost for each dosing regimen in this survey. However we expect that most patients would prefer low-dose PSL with early combination of other modalities to achieve the treatment target earlier possibly with little symptom aggravation and less adverse effects even if the cost is higher than high-dose PSL with an escalation and de-escalation schedule. Author affiliations. 1Department of Occupational Therapy Sapporo Medical University School of health Sciences Sapporo Japan 2Department of Neurology Sapporo Medical University hospital Sapporo Japan 3Department of Neurology hanamaki General hospital hanamaki Japan 4Department of Neurology School of Medicine International University of health and Welfare Narita Japan 5Department of Neurology Sendai Medical center Sendai Japan 6Department of Neurology hokkaido Medical center Sapporo Japan 7Department of Neurology chib.
sity hospital and Dr Y Shimizu and Dr R Ikeguchi Department of Neurology Tokyo Womens Medical University for collection of patient data.contributors TI KU hM ET and YN involved in conception and design of the work. TI KU hM ET YN YS NM AU NK MM SK hS TA and MA involved in acquisition of data. TI involved in analysis and interpretation of data drafted the article. All other coauthors revised the article critically for important intellectual content.competing interests None declared.Patient consent Obtained.ethics approval The ethics committees of each of the participating institutions approved the study protocols.Provenance and peer review Not commissioned externally peer reviewed. Article authors or their employers unless otherwise stated in the text of the article 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless otherwise expressly granted. Fracture rate in patients with myasthenia gravis the general practice research database. Summary The aim of this study was to evaluate fracture risk after onset of myasthenia gravis using the UK General Practice Research Database.
Introduction Myasthenia gravis MG is a neuromuscular disease which has been associated with an increased falls risk and glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis recognized determinants of increased fracture risk. The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of fracture after onset of MG. Methods We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the UK General Practice Research Database 19872009. Each MG patient was matched by age sex calendar time and practice to up to six patients without a history of MG and we identified all fractures and those associated with osteoporosis. Results Compared to the control cohort there was no statistically significant increased risk observed in patients with MG for any fracture adjusted hazard ratio AHR 1.11 95 % confidence interval CI 0.841.47 or osteoporotic fractures AHR 0.98 95 % CI 0.671.41. Further use of oral glucocorticoids up to a cumulative dose exceeding 5 g prednisolone equivalents did not increase risk of osteoporotic fracture AHR 0.99 95 % CI 0.313.14 compared with MG patients without glucocorticoid exposure. However fracture risk was higher in patients with MG prescribed antidepressants AHR 3.27 95 % CI 1.636.55 anxiolytics AHR 2.18 95 % CI 1.044.57 and anticonvulsants AHR 6.88 95 % CI 2.9116.27.
These findings have implications in strategies preserving bone health in patients with MG. S end. Pouwels A. de Boer H. G end. Leufkens  F. de Vries Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences Universiteit Utrecht Utrecht the Netherlands M. K end. Javaid  C. Cooper Oxford NIHR Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit Department of Orthopaedics Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences University of Oxford Oxford UK D. Hilton-Jones Department of Clinical Neurology University of Oxford Oxford UK J. Verschuuren Department of Neurology Leiden University Medical Centre Leiden the Netherlands C. Cooper  F. de Vries MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit University of Southampton Southampton UK F. de Vries Department of Clinical Pharmacy  Toxicology Maastricht University Medical Centre Maastricht the Netherlands F. de Vries  Universiteitsweg 99 3584 CG Utrecht the Netherlands e-mail f.devriesuu.nl Osteoporos Int 2013 24467476 DOI 10.1007/s00198-012-1970-5. Introduction Myasthenia gravis MG is a neuromuscular disease which has been associated with an increased falls risk and glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis recognized determinants of increased fracture risk. The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of fracture after onset of MG.
Each MG patient was matched by age sex calendar time and practice to up to six patients without a history of MG and we identified all fractures and those associated with osteoporosis. Results Compared to the control cohort there was no statistically significant increased risk observed in patients with MG for any fracture adjusted hazard ratio AHR 1.11 95 % confidence interval CI 0.841.47 or osteoporotic fractures AHR 0.98 95 % CI 0.671.41. Further use of oral glucocorticoids up to a cumulative dose exceeding 5 g prednisolone equivalents did not increase risk of osteoporotic fracture AHR 0.99 95 % CI 0.313.14 compared with MG patients without glucocorticoid exposure. However fracture risk was higher in patients with MG prescribed antidepressants AHR 3.27 95 % CI 1.636.55 anxiolytics AHR 2.18 95 % CI 1.044.57 and anticonvulsants AHR 6.88 95 % CI 2.9116.27. Conclusion Overall risk of fracture in patients with MG is not statistically increased compared with age- and gender-matched controls irrespective of glucocorticoid use but was increased in those using antidepressants anxiolytics or anticonvulsants. These findings have implications in strategies preserving bone health in patients with MG. S end. Pouwels A. de Boer H. G end. Leufkens  F.
K end. Javaid  C. Cooper Oxford NIHR Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit Department of Orthopaedics Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences University of Oxford Oxford UK D. Hilton-Jones Department of Clinical Neurology University of Oxford Oxford UK J. Verschuuren Department of Neurology Leiden University Medical Centre Leiden the Netherlands C. Cooper  F. de Vries MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit University of Southampton Southampton UK F. de Vries Department of Clinical Pharmacy  Toxicology Maastricht University Medical Centre Maastricht the Netherlands F. de Vries  Universiteitsweg 99 3584 CG Utrecht the Netherlands e-mail f.devriesuu.nlKeywords Corticosteroids . Epidemiology . Fracture . Myasthenia gravis . Osteoporosis. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an automimmune disorder with symptoms of muscle weakness and fatigability in which antibodies reduce the number of acetylcholine receptors at the post-synaptic region of the neuromuscular junction 1. MG is relatively rare with an estimated pooled incidence rate of 5.3 per million person-years and an estimated pooled prevalence rate of 77.7 per million persons 2.
Patients with a diagnosis of MG have a normal life expectancy based on the currently available therapies 4.MG is associated with an increased falls risk 57 and glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis 8 9. The increased risk of falls from MG is likely to be multifactorial including severe muscle weakness 1 impaired vision as a result of ocular MG and steroid-induced myopathy 10 11. Recent studies in a representative sample of the total UK population have shown that treatment with glucocorticoids is associated with a substantial risk of fracture in a wide range of chronic diseases 12 13. Oral glucocorticoid treatment in MG patients is regularly started with 10 mg prednisolone per day and is quickly increased towards about 60 mg per day 14 15. Once an effective clinical response is obtained within about 1012 weeks this dose is slowly tapered down towards 2.510 mg prednisolone equivalents each day or an equivalent dose on alternate days for maintenance 15. Hence these patients are routinely exposed to significant cumulative doses of prednisolone far exceeding 1 g.In addition to falls risk and glucocorticoid therapy the increased risk of fracture in patients with MG may also relate to psychiatric comorbidity and its treatment.
This could be the result of a central cholinergic transmission deficit caused by blocking of acetylcholine receptors within the central nervous system 17. Both CNS drugs such as antidepressants and antipsychotics and the CNS diseases like epilepsy and depression have been associated with an increased risk of fracture 1821 or osteoporosis 22 23.Objectives of this study are to determine the risk of fracture in patients with MG as compared with populationbased controls and to evaluate the effects of oral glucocorticoids and CNS medication on fracture risk in patients with MG. Methods end. Data sourcesInformation for this study was obtained from the General Practice Research Database GPRD which comprises the computerized medical records of all patients under the care of general practitioners in the UK. Medical information on patients who are registered for medical care with a practice is supplied to the GPRD 24. The data in GPRD have been linked to the national Hospital Episode Statistics HES in England for approximately 45 % of all practices. HES includes information on the date main discharge diagnosis and duration of hospitalisation as provided by the NHS hospitals. Data were linked from April 2001 up to March 2007.
The study population consisted of all patients aged 18 years or older with at least one recorded diagnosis of MG during the period of HES or GPRD data collection for this study GPRD data collection started in January 1987 and ended in July 2009. Incident cases of MG were defined as individuals whose first recorded GP or hospital visit for MG was at least 1 year after their inclusion into the database. Each MG patient was matched by year of birth sex and practice to up to six patients without a history of MG to generate a matched cohort. The index date of MG diagnosis was the date of the first record of MG after GPRD data collection had started. Each control patient was assigned the same index date as his matched MG patient. The study patients were followed up from this index date to either the end of GPRD data collection the date of transfer of the patient out of the practice area the patients death or the occurrence of fracture whichever came first. All types of fracture were included in the analyses and classified according to the International Classification of Diseases Tenth Revision ICD-10 categories HES and corresponding read codes GPRD.
The following criteria were used to determine a probable MG case a recording of MG in twodifferent registries GPRD and HES n0205 or it has a recording of MG in at least one registry with either a letter from a neurologist confirming the patient has seen a neurologist ever before or 1 year after the diagnostic code n0 291 or a record of thymectomy n048 any time during follow-up recorded either in GPRD or HES or at least two prescriptions on different days of pyridostigmine oral glucocorticoids az. athioprine methotrexate ciclosporin or mycophenolate mofetil any time during enrolment n0 754. Possible cases were identified if they had a recording of MG in either GPRD or HES without the abovementioned prescription data recording of thymectomy or a letter from a neurologist. Patients were excluded if they had a record of LambertEaton type myasthenic syndrome which mimics MG.ExposureThe indicators of MG severity selected for the study were selected from the myasthenia gravis Foundation of America postintervention status that were also recorded in the GPRD 27. Grade 1 included patients who did not use cholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants during the past 6 months. Grade 2 included patients who used immunosuppressants but not cholinesterase inhibitors during the past 6 months.
MG severity grade may fluctuate over time.Potential confounders that were determined at baseline included body mass index BMI smoking status alcohol status and occurrence of prior fractures. Missing data for BMI smoking or alcohol status was treated as a separate group in the statistical models. Potential confounders that were determined for a time-dependent analysis during follow-up included age a history of chronic diseases including asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD rheumatoid arthritis thyroid disorders renal failure cancer congestive heart failure cerebrovascular disease diabetes mellitus inflammatory bowel disease and secondary osteoporosis based on the definition of FRAX 28 a prescription in the 6 months before an interval for CNS medication anti-parkinson medicat. ion non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs NSAIDs oral glucocorticoids and other immunosuppressants azathioprine ciclosporin tacrolimus mycophenolate mofetil and methotrexate. In this approach it was assumed that no residual effect was left for medication used more than 6 months before an interval.
WHOdefined daily dosages were used to add up dose equivalences of various CNS medication and oral glucocorticoid substances. Within the 6 months before each interval the average daily dose was calculated by dividing the cumulative dose by the time between the oldest prescription and the start date of the period. In addition MG disease duration was noted as measured from the start of follow-up.Statistical analysisTime-dependent Cox proportional hazards regression was used in order to estimate hazard ratios HRs of fracture risk. The first analysis compared the fracture rate in MG patients with that in control patients to yield an estimate of the HRs of fracture in MG. The second analysis examined the effect of disease severity and use of oral glucocorticoids antidepressants anxiolytics or anticonvulsants on fracture risk in the MG cohort.For each analysis the regression model was fitted with the indicators for MG severity and general risk factors. These characteristics were treated as time-dependent variables in the analysis in which the total period of follow-up was divided into periods of 30 days starting at the index date.
BMI alcohol status smoking status and occurrence of prior fracture were determined at baseline. During follow-up the presence of a previous record for a chronic disease ever before each period of 30 days was assessed while the presence of a medical prescription was assessed in the 6 months before each period. All characteristics except age were included as categorical variables in the regression models. A priori we tested for interactions between age and gender with fracture risk. Adjustments were made if any potential confounder showed a change in HR exceeding 1 %.Sensitivity analysesA separate analysis was performed for probable and for possible MG patients. In a second sensitivity analysis we excluded all patients and their matched subjects who had ever been prescribed a bisphosphonate selective oestrogen receptor modulator strontium ranelate or parathyroid hormone during follow-up. This in order to evaluate whether the use of bone protecting treatment had masked a true association between MG or glucocorticoid use and fracture. Results end. Table 1 shows that there were 1066 incident patients with probable or possible MG matched to 6392 controls identifiedbetween 1987 and 2009. The mean age of patients with MG was 62 years and 50 % were female.
Patients were followed for a median of 4 years.aCiclosporin azathioprine tacrolimus mycophenolate mofetil and methotrexate are includedWhen compared with their matched controls patients with a diagnosis of MG had no increased risk of either all fractures in both unadjusted and adjusted models adjusted hazard ratio AHR for any fracture 1.11 95 % confidence interval CI 0.841.47 or typical osteoporotic fractures AHR 0.98 95 % CI 0.671.41 Table 2. The fracture risk did not differ significantly among patients with probable MG AHR for any fracture 0.89 95% CI 0.671.25 for classical osteoporotic fracture AHR 0.79 95% CI 0.50 1.25. In addition no associations were observed between incident MG patients stratified by gender and by age categories.We then examined the effect of exposure to medications well known to be associated with an increased risk of fracture Table 3. Surprisingly recent exposure to oral glucocorticoids did not significantly alter fracture risk within MG patients. At osteoporotic sites of incident MG patients fracture risk yielded an AHR of 0.81 95 % CI 0.401.61 compared to MG patients who did not use oralcorticosteroids in the past 6 months.
In these analyses osteoporotic fractures were reported in respectively seven and four MG patients. The interaction term between MG and oral glucocorticoids did not reach statistical significance p value>0.05 for any and for typical osteoporotic fractures Table 4. Finally a sensitivity analysis in which 645 MG patients without exposure to osteoporosis therapies and their 3647 controls were left a diagnosis of MG did not alter risk of any AHR 1.21 95 % CI 0.841.74 or typical osteoporotic fracture AHR 1.44 95 % CI 0.892.34.Conversely within the group of incident MG patients risk of fracture was twofold higher in those with a recent use of antidepressants AHR 2.15 95 % CI 1.223.79 twofoldTable 2 Risk of fracture in incident MG patients by type of fracture ge. nder and age compared to patients without MGNumber of fracturesRate/1000 person-yearsAgesex adjusted HR 95 % CIFully adjusted HR 95 % CIaNo MG 426 12.6 1.00 1.00MG any fracture 75 14.2 1.19 0.931.52 1.11 0.841.47Fracture at osteoporotic sites 43 8.2 1.13 0.821.56 0.98 0.671.41 Hip fracture 8 1.5 0.85 0.411.77 0.61 0.261.45b Vertebral fracture 9 1.7 2.85 1.316.18 2.13 0.825.51c Radius/ulna fracture 11 2.1 0.92 0.491.73 1.02 0.512.04d Other fracture 15 2.8 1.00 0.581.71 0.86 0.471.59e Fracture at .
of smoking and alcohol use b Additionally adjusted for anxiolytics and antipsychotics in the previous 6 months history of asthma and cerebrovascular disease c Additionally adjusted for use of anxiolytics NSAIDs anti-parkinson medication in the previous 6 months history of COPD rheumatoid arthritis asthma secondary osteoporosis and BMI status but not for history of smoking d Not adjusted for history of smoking e Not adjusted for use of antidepressants in the previous 6 months and not for history . of smoking f Additionally adjusted for history of stroke in the previous year and history of hypothyroidism and secondary osteoporosis. Not adjusted for antidepressant use and not for history of alcohol use gMale MG patients are compared with male controls and female MG patients with female controls hMG patients in each age group are only compared with control patients in the same age grouphigher for anxiolytics AHR 1.80 95 % CI 0.973.34 and fivefold increased with recent use of anticonvulsants AHR 5.36 95 % CI 2.7610.39.
None of the remaining risk factors for fracture which are described in the Methods section showed a significant increased or decreased risk for any fracture or for fractures at osteoporotic sites. Finally within the complete cohort with both incident MG patients and control patients the interaction term between MG and anxiolytics showed statistical significance for osteoporotic fracture p value<0.05. The interaction term between MG and anticonvulsantsshowed statistical significance for both osteoporotic and any fracture p value<0.05.To further investigate whether a true association between MG and fracture risk had been averaged out by a fluctuating hazard function we showed that MG duration was not related to fracture risk 1-year risk of any fracture yielded an AHR of 1.15 95 % CI 0.881.52 in patients with MG versus population-based controls while 5-year risk AHRs of 0.97 95 % CI 0.741.28 an. d 10-year risk AHR 0.94 95 % CI 0.711.23 were not different. The KaplanMeier curve as presented in Fig. 1 showed similar results with a non-significant log-rank test p value>0.05 when MG patients were compared with control patients. In addition the severity of MG was not related to increased risk of fracture Table 5.
use 28 0.88 0.521.47 16 0.75 0.381.50<2.5 g prednisolone eq 13 0.80 0.421.53 7 0.63 0.261.532.55.0 g prednisolone eq 10 1.11 0.542.26 5 0.83 0.312.25>05.0 g prednisolone eq 5 0.73 0.271.94 4 0.99 0.313.14MG by history of drug use in previous 6 monthsNo oral glucocorticoid use 48 1.00 28 1.00Oral glucocorticoid use 27 0.97 0.581.63 15 0.81 0.401.61<7.5 mg prednisolone eq/day 10 0.99 0.492.03 5 0.70 0.261.927.515 mg prednisolone eq/day 8 1.00 0.462.16 3 0.57 0.171.93>015 mg prednisolone eq/day 9 0. .93 0.441.99 7 1.17 0.472.89No antidepressant use 59 1.00 31 1.00Antidepressant use 16 2.15 1.223.79 12 3.27 1.636.55<20 mg fluoxetine eq/day 9 1.88 0.923.86 7 2.77 1.186.50>020 mg fluoxetine eq/day 7 2.61 1.185.80 5 4.32 1.6411.38No anxiolytic use 61 1.00 32 1.00Anxiolytic use 14 1.80 0.973.34 11 2.18 1.044.57<10 mg diazepam eq/day 10 1.72 0.853.47 8 2.10 0.904.86>010 mg diazepam eq/day 4 2.07 0.735.82 3 2.41 0.718.12No anticonvulsant use 64 1.00 36 1.00Anticonvulsant use 11 5.36 2.7610.39 7 6.
Discussion. Our results show that an incident diagnosis of MG was not associated with a statistically increased risk of fracture or fracture at osteoporotic sites. Further the use of oral glucocorticoids did not alter overall fracture risk not even when cumulative exposure had exceed >5 g prednisolone equivalents. No association was present between fracture risk and duration or severity of MG. However MG patients who used CNS medication are at significantly increased risk compared to MG patients without CNS medication.The most striking finding of this study was that in patients with MG the use of oral glucocortiods and in particular in high dosages was not associated with an increased risk of fracture. Alternatively this subgroup of MG patients mayhave been underpowered especially the stratification to cumulative high-dose glucocorticoids with only four reported osteoporotic fractures in the MG population. A different explanation for the lower HRs in MG patients on glucocorticoids is that pyridostigmine may have anabolic effects and therefore level out any detrimental effects of glucocorticoids 12 13. Cholinesterase inhibitors elevate acetylcholine levels in MG patients 3.
In theory the positive effects of acetylcholine on bone turnover could level out the negative effects of oral glucocorticosteroids on bone which would explain our findings. Moreover a recent study performed by Wakata et al. 31 showed that Japanese MG patients who received long-term 8.2 years high-dose prednisolone therapy maximum 80100 mg for 46 weeks had a 50 % reduced osteoporosis rate as compared to the general population. A second explanation for lower HRs in MG patients on glucocorticoids is that generally patients treated with glucocorticoids are exposed to an inflammatory disease. Subsequently the disease may increase the risk for fracture itself like rheumatoid arthritis 32. This inflammatory compound is generally not present in MG patients except for some inflammatory cells that may be present in muscle 33. An alternative explanation is that glucocorticoids may decrease fracture risk associated with the disease thus cancelling out its adverse effects. A last explanation is that MG patients are often treated on alternate days with glucocorticoids 15.
ticoid use 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00Oral glucocorticoid use 0.88 0.521.47 1.50 1.022.20 0.217 0.75 0.381.50 1.86 1.232.83 0.065No antidepressant use 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00Antidepressant use 2.15 1.223.79 1.50 1.151.96 0.608 3.27 1.636.55 1.63 1.182.27 0.260No anxiolytic use 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00Anxiolytic use 1.80 0.973.34 1.14 0.821.59 0.101 2.18 1.044.57 1.17 0.791.73 0.044No anticonvulsant use 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00Anticonvulsant use 5.36 2.7610.39 0.96 0.531.76 0.000 6.88 2.9116.27 1.19 0.612.33 0.002a Ad. justed for the same confounders as described below Table 2 for any and osteoporotic fracture but the confounder is not added to the model if it is similar to the drug being investigated b The interaction term MG  drug use in the previous 6 months was investigated within the cohort of MG patients and controls. Survival Probability. showed no significantly increased risk of fracture. In contrast our finding of an increased risk of fracture in users of various classes of CNS drugs is in keeping with previous findings 1821 34. The increased fracture risk may be caused by side effects of CNS medication such as sedation and dizziness through an increased risk of falling.3537.
Both orthostatic hypotension and seizures are risk factors for falling and subsequently for fracture. In addition the use of SSRIs has been shown to reduce bone mineral density in humans and negatively affected bone strength in rodents 39 40 probably due to serotonin tranporter inhibition in osteoblasts. This can ultimately lead to an increased risk of fracture. Finally reduced bone mineral density has also been observed among users of anticonvulsants through an increase of vitamin D catabolism resulting in an increased bone resorption 41. MG patients using anticonvulsants had a significantly higher fracture risk as compared with control patients using anticonvulsants for which the cause is unknown. MG patients and controls using anticonvulsants were equally distributed when stratified to a confirmed diagnosis of epilepsy in the GPRD database. The same applies for a diagnosis of neurological pain which makes effect modification unlikely. This finding warrants further research.Our study has several strengths. It is the first study that investigated the risk of fracture in a substantial number of MG patients and for whom longitudinal drug exposure data were available. It had a reasonable sample size comprising 1066 incident MG patients who met the inclusion criteria.
This makes selection bias unlikely. We had the ability to statistically adjust our analyses forwell-known risk factors of fracture such as gender age BMI smoking status and occurrence of prior fractures.Our study had various limitations. We did not have access to neurology records including lab test results for presence of acetylcholine receptor antibodies which are a diagnostic tool for MG 1. Information on the diagnosis of MG patients was therefore limited. For this reason we determined fracture risk not only among all patients with a MG recording in either GPRD or HES but also among more probable MG patients with more than one recording of MG only. We could only use variables recorded in the GPRD to assign disease severity and classification of severity of disease could have been improved if we would have had access to tertiary care data such as plasmapheresis. We did not have data on femoral bone mineral density and no data on history of hip fracture among the parents of patients. Only small numbers of incident MG patients were present in the subgroup analyses. For this reason these data should be interpreted with care. Moreover no data were present about vitamin D plasma levels degree of exercise or longitudinal data on body weight.
This issue warrants further research. In theory high-dose prednisolone might exacerbate MG which could have interfered with the analyses. However glucocorticoid treatment is regularly started with a low dose which is gradually increased 14 15. This minimizes the risk of an exacerbation.In conclusion this study showed that MG was not associated with a statistically significant increased fracture risk not even among MG patients who received high-dose oralTable 5 Risk of any fracture and fracture at osteoporotic sites in incident MG patients by severity compared to patients without MGRisk of any fracture Risk of fracture at osteoporotic siteNumber of fracturesFully adjusted HR 95 % CIaNumber of fracturesFully adjusted HR 95 % CIaMG by se. verity steps based on pyridostigmine and immunosuppressants use in the 6 months priorbGrade 1 no use 28 1.00 15 1.00Grade 2 immunosuppressants only 13 0.67 0.162.80 6 0.81 0.135.04Grade 3 pyridostigmine only 17 0.99 0.541.83 11 1.14 0.512.54Grade 4 both immunosuppressant and pyridostigmine use17 0.34 0.071.60 11 0.48 0.073.42a Adjusted for the same confounders as described below Table 2 for any and osteoporotic fracture but the confounder is not added to the model if it is similar to the drug be.
This suggests that there is no need to alter current management of MG. In contrast fracture risk was increased among patients using CNS medication. Therefore fracture risk assessment may be indicated among patients with MG who have recently used CNS medication. Further investigation should be performed to address the underlying mechanism for the observed absence of an increased fracture risk among MG patients exposed to high-dose oral glucocorticoids.Acknowledgements This work was funded in part by The European Calcified Tissue Society and the NIHR Biomedical Research Unit in Musculoskeletal Sciences Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre Oxford.Conflicts of interest The Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutic. al Sciences employing authors Sander Pouwels Anthonius de Boer Hubertus G Leufkens and Frank de Vries has received unrestricted funding for pharmacoepidemiological research from GlaxoSmithKline Novo Nordisk privatepublic funded Top Institute Pharma www.tipharma.nl and includes cofunding from universities government and industry the Dutch Medicines Evaluation Board and the Dutch Ministry of Health.Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License .
Efficacy and safety of tacrolimus for myasthenia gravis a systematic review and meta-analysis. to 0.23 p  0.02 in the quantitative myasthenia gravis score and 1.10 1.84 to 0.36 p  0.004 in the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living score at 6 months. Adverse events were recorded in 80 of 347 patients 23% treated with tacrolimus and most of them were mild. This meta-analysis proves that tacrolimus therapy is beneficial to improve clinical symptoms in MG patients. Tacrolimus may be a worthy therapy to relieve MG symptoms. Vol.0123456789to 0.23 p0.02 in the quantitative myasthenia gravis score and 1.10 1.84 to 0.36 p0.004 in the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living score at 6months. Adverse events were recorded in 80 of 347 patients 23% treated with tacrolimus and most of them were mild. This meta-analysis proves that tacrolimus therapy is beneficial to improve clinical symptoms in MG patients. Tacrolimus may be a worthy therapy to relieve MG symptoms.Keywords Tacrolimus Myasthenia gravis Immunotherapy Antibody. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction NMJ mediated by antibodies against synaptic membrane proteins. It generally presents with fatigable muscle weakness.
They include antibodies against muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK low density lipoprotein receptor related protein LRP4 and other proteins specific to the NMJ 2.The target of MG treatment is to reduce the symptom of weakness and maintain remission and avoid unnecessary side effects. Current therapeutic options in myasthenia gravis are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors glucocorticoids GC intravenous immunoglobulin plasma exchange thymectomy monoclonal antibody and immunosuppressive agents including azathioprine cyclosporine cyclophosphamide mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus 3. GC and azathioprine remain the first-line medical treatment. However not all patients respond well to them. Besides long-term GCLiang Wang Suxian Zhang and Jianying Xi equally contributed to this work. Tiansong Zhang ztsdoctor126.com Chongbo Zhao zhaochongbofudan.edu.cn1 Department ofNeurology Huashan Hospital Fudan University Shanghai200040 China2 Department ofChinese Traditional Medicine Jingan District Centre Hospital ofShanghai Shanghai200040 China3 Department ofNeurology Childrens Hospital ofFudan University Shanghai200040 China4 Department ofNeurology Jingan District Centre Hospital ofShanghai S.
Other immunosuppressive agents have shown insufficient efficacy with obvious side effects in refractory MG 5.Tacrolimus FK506 is a novel macrolide immunosuppressant derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis 6 and functions in a manner similar to cyclosporine but much more potent. This drug inhibits calcineurin activity and then the formation of a number of cytokines that interact with helper T-cells resulting in T cell suppression and subsequent reduction in antibodies produced by B-cells 7. It has already been used successfully in the field of organ transplantation 810 polymyositis 11 rheumatoid arthritis 12 13 and systemic lupus erythematous 14 15.Recently tacrolimus is recommended as a second-line therapy for long-term use in MG patients who are unresponsive or intolerant of traditional immunosuppressants 16. Emerging clinical studies demonstrated that tacrolimus can effectively and safely improve the condition of MG patients even the patients with refractory MG 1728. To date the systematic review and meta-analysis of tacrolimus therapy for MG is still lacking. Therefore we performed one to explore its efficacy and safety. Objectives. We aim to examine the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in inducing improvement and remission of MG. Methods end. end.
end. Types ofstudies. We searched for each randomized controlled trial RCT and clinical controlled trial CCT limited to human studies involving any forms of tacrolimus for the treatment of MG in two treatment arms. Types ofparticipants. We included all MG participants diagnosed by the trial authors according to clinical findings electromyography or serum anti-AChR antibodies. They were also evaluated clinically at onset with the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA 29 Clinical Classification. The demographic and clinical characteristics of all patients were considered. Types ofinterventions. We included all randomized or quasi-randomized clinical study with a tacrolimus arm assessing the efficacy of tacrolimus versus placebo or other immunosuppressants or immunomodulatory therapy combined with tacrolimus versus the same treatment combined with placebo. The dose of tacrolimus in each study was extracted to discuss the efficacy of different doses. Types ofoutcome measures. We summarized all obvious outcome measures in each randomized or quasi-randomized clinical study for the assessment of the efficacy of tacrolimus in MG. Only some studies had comparable outcome measures. Some trial authors did not clearly define the primary and secondary endpoints.
Adverse reactions were abstracted from each study to evaluate the safety of tacrolimus. Primary outcomes. Current GC dose. Secondary outcomes. 1 end. Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America quantitative myasthenia gravis score QMG. 2 end. Myasthenia Gravis activities of daily living score ADL. 3 end. Number of plasmapheresis immunoadsorption method IA and high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone HMP treatment. 4 end. Ratio of serum acetylcholine receptor AChR antibody. 5 end. Manual muscle test score MMT. Search methods foridentification ofstudies. end. Electronic searches. Two reviewers Liang Wang and Suxian Zhang independently searched PubMed from January 1966 to April 2017 and Embase from January 1974 to April 2017 using the terms myasthenia gravis and tacrolimus. The search was limited to RCTs or CCTs of human studies written English. Case reports and reviews were excluded from this systematic review. We checked the published data provided in the1 3original studies and contacted the corresponding authors to ask for additional unpublished data. Data collection andanalysis. end. Selection ofstudies. Three reviewers Liang Wang Suxian Zhang and Jianying Xi checked the titles and abstracts in primary screening and then the full text in the secondary screening.
Data extraction andmanagement. Data extraction was performed by two reviewers Liang Wang and Suxian Zhang with a standardized data extraction table and was checked by one reviewer Jianying Xi. We re-reviewed any contradictory data and reached a consensus with discussion. Assessment ofrisk ofbiases inincluded studies. Two reviewers Liang Wang and Suxian Zhang independently judged each risk of bias and evaluated methodological quality of the included studies. The evaluation of methodological quality of the studies included random sequence generation allocation concealment patient blinding observer blinding incomplete outcome data selective reporting and other bias 30. We judged each risk of bias as high low or unclear. The studies would be reassessed if there was any contradiction and an agreement would be reached with discussion. Assessment ofheterogeneity. The Chi-squared test was employed to analyze the presence of heterogeneity and we judged its extent with the I2 statistics. The significance level  was set as 0.1. Statistical heterogeneity was considered insignificant if the p value of the Chi-squared test was 0.1. If the value was <0.1 heterogeneity was thought significant and interpreted in accordance with the I2 statistics.
Assessment ofreporting biases. Funnel plot was employed to analyze the reporting bias if the number of included studies exceeds ten. Data synthesis. Data analysis was performed with the Revman5.3 software. Most outcome measures included in the meta-analysis were continuous variables although there were some differences among each outcome measure. Means of each outcome measure squared differences SDs and number of the MG patients were included in the quantitative analysis. Weighted mean differences WMDs and 95% confidence intervals CIs were expressed as response index of tacrolimus against placebo when the evaluation scale was similar while standard mean differences SMDs and 95% CIs were employed when the evaluation scale differed greatly. Statistical significance was set at <0.05. We analyzed the endpoints using a random-effects meta-analysis model. Subgroup analysis andinvestigation ofheterogeneity. We would try to trace the origin of heterogeneity with a subgroup analysis considering participants with and without thymectomy or thymoma time of duration since onset intervention duration 6 and <6months. Sensitivity analysis.
Results end. end. Results ofthesearch. The number of studies retrieved from the databases by current search strategies was PubMed 6 Embase 15. A total of 5 studies 3 RCTs and 2 CCTs met inclusion standards 23 3134. A flowchart of the included studies and reasons for withdrawal from the systematic review is presented in Fig.1. Description ofstudies. There were 683 patients in total of the included five studies. A summary of the demographic and clinical characteristics of the patients included in the systematic review is presented in Table1. Risk ofbias inincluded studies. A summary of the methodological quality parameters and review authors judgements about each risk of bias in included studies is presented in Fig.2.1 3Effects ofinterventions. Primary outcome measure. 1 end. Current GC dose.1.1 Intervention duration 6months. There were 2 RCTs 31 32 and 1 CCT 33 evaluating the efficacy of tacrolimus to current GC dose at 6months. We regarded 7months from one study approximately as 6months. A total of 241 patients were included. At 6months from the initial treatment the SMD in the GC dose reduction between the trial group and controlled group was 1.95 4.20 to 0.30 p0.09 Fig.3a. 1.2 Intervention duration 12 months.
A total of 521 patients were included. At 12months from the initial treatment the SMD in the GC dose reduction between the trial group and controlled group was 1.72 4.21 to 0.77 p0.18 Fig.3b.Secondary outcome measures1. QMG score.1.1 Intervention duration 6months. There were 3 RCTs 23 31 32 evaluating the efficacy of tacrolimus to QMG score at 6months. We regarded 7months from one study approximately as 6months. A total of 196 patients were included. The statistical difference in improving QMG score was significant WMD 1.34 2.46 0.23 p0.02 Fig.4a. 1.2 Intervention duration 12months. There were 1 RCT 23 and 1 CCT 34 evaluating the efficacy of tacrolimus to QMG score at 12months. In total 442 patients were included. It did not reach the statistical difference in improving QMG score WMD 1.21 1.14 3.56 p0.31 Fig.4b.2 ADL score. There were 2 RCTs 31 32 evaluating the efficacyof tacrolimus to ADL score at 6months. We regarded 7months from one study approximately as 6months. A total of 162 patients were included. The statistical difference in improving ADL score was significant WMD 1.10 1.84 0.36 p0.004 Fig.5.3. Other outcome measures The other three outcome measures were only reportedin one study each.
Safety evaluation. Adverse events were recorded in 80 of 347 patients 23% treated with tacrolimus. In the Zhous study 32 38 adverse events in 33 participants were observed and included Upper respiratory tract infection myasthenia gravis nasopharyngitis diarrhea urinary tract infection and diabetes mellitus. Besides the serious adverse events SAE included myasthenia gravis in three patients lung infection diabetes mellitus and dyspnea in one patient respectively. In the Utsugisawas study 34 the author did not report any side effects. In the Yoshikawas study 31 67 adverse drug reactions involving 35 participants were reported. The most frequent side effects included nasopharyngitis in 10 cases upper-respiratory-tract inflammation in 5 increased whitblood-cell in 5 glycosylated haemoglobin glucose urine and muscle spasms in 4 patients respectively. Besides SAE included appendicitis and sudden hearing loss in one patient each.
eH MP trea tmen t Rat ioo f ser uma cety l-ch olin ere cept ora ntib ody M anua l mus cle test scor eM MTSt ud y na m ePa tient sT /C Mal eT /C Age T/C Th ymec -to my T/C Th ym om a T /C Ti me sinc eon set  T/C M GFA clin ical cla ssifi catio nat ons etT /C Inte rven tio n m ea su re T/C In terv en - tio n dura tio n m on th sEv alua tio n m on ths Out -co m e m ea sur esI IIII IIV VZh ou 201 744 /38 16/2 041 .0 12. 8/44 .0 12. 1 27 .9 37. 8/63 .5 90. 2m onth s   Tacr olim us3m g/da y GC /G C Pla cebo6 6  U tsug i-sa w a 201 520 5/20 3 57.0 1 6.4/ 58.5 1 6.8 118/ 110 55/3 79. 8 9.0 /11. 8 10 end. 7y ears 19 /47 75/9 564 /38 18/9 29/1 4Ta crol i-m us GC /G C12 12 Yo shika w a 2 01140 /40 17/1 345 .9 11. 50/4 4.4 1 2.36 28/3 012 /87. 41 9.0 16/7 .94 9 .540y ears 14 /11 21/2 24/ 40/ 21/ 1Ta crol imus3 m g/ da y G C / G C  P lace bo7 7 Po nset i2 007 40/3 940 .9 15. 9/38 .3 14. 240 /39 13/9 15.5 2 4.1/ 12.6 2 3. 4 m on ths 0/0 0/0 18/1 916 /14 6/6 Tacr olim us0.1 mg/ kg / da y  G C / G C12 61 2N agan e2 005 18/1 65/ 456 .6 17. 0/54 .2 16. 17/ 62/ 311 .5 7.7 /10. 5 13 end.
In the Naganes trial 23 no significant side effects were encountered but only 1 patient exhibited elevated serum creatinine. Most of the drug-related adverse events were mild and tacrolimus did not have to be withdrawn. Discussion. end. Summary ofmain results. In this systematic review treatment with tacrolimus did not exhibit a statistically significant difference in GC dose reduction at 6 and 12months compared with placebo. While tacrolimus therapy demonstrated a statistically significant difference in QMG score reduction and ADL score reduction at 6months. At 12months the statistical difference in QMG score reduction was not significant. The other three outcome measures demonstrated that tacrolimus could significantly reduce the number of IAHMP treatments which can be used to relieve acute deterioration and direct at remission in MG patients 35. But in AChR antibody ratio and MMT the statistical difference was not significant between the two groups. The dose of tacrolimus was restricted to 3mg/day in the three included studies 23 31 32. In Ponsetis trial 33 the concentration of tacrolimus was set as 0.1mg/kg/ day. However Utsugisawa etal. 34 did not report their tacrolimus dosage. Tacrolimus was well-tolerated among patients.
Overall completeness andapplicability ofevidence. In the Zhous study 32 11 patients 7 tacrolimus and 4 placebo discontinued the study in the follow-up phase therapy. In the Utsugisawas study 34 the author did not report any patients who discontinued the study. In the Yoshikawas study 31 there were 7 patients 2 tacrolimus and 5 placebo for withdrawal. In Ponsetis trial 33 1 patient 1 tacrolimus lost to follow-up and was excluded. In the Naganes trial 23 2 patients 2 placebo discontinued the study in the early phase therapy.1 3. Quality oftheevidence. There were some limitations in the evidence. First we only searched for relevant published studies in English. The included studies may not be full and reporting bias may exist. Second the quality of included studies was relatively low because most studies exhibited detection bias. In other words there was little blinding of outcome assessment. Besides randomization was not used in some included studies resulting in the fact that tacrolimus was given to refractory MG patients who were not well-responded. The researchers should be recommended to ensure the methodological quality of clinical trial in future.
Third the outcome measure intervention duration and evaluation time were different in each included study which may influence the combined results.The researchers should be recommended to make a unified standard to regularize the intervention measure and the baseline characteristics of the two treatment groups. Fourth the intervention duration was not long so we could not conclude the long-term efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in MG. Long-term RCTs should be performed to explore the longterm efficacy of tacrolimus. Potential bias inthereview process. There were several limitations in the review process. First the patient number in most included studies was small which could be interpreted with the low incidence of MG and inclusion standard. The small sample size weakened the statistical power to achieve the primary efficacy endpoint. Second given the insufficiency of the included studies and the obvious heterogeneity among them we did not bring some outcome measures into meta-analysisFig. 4 Improvement of QMG score a 6months b 12monthsFig. 5 Improvement of ADL score at 6months1 3in the systematic review. The researchers should make a comprehensive evaluation to explore the efficacy of tacrolimus thoroughly. Third we used some approximate data in the review process.
There was no significant difference regarding characteristics and baseline severity between patients treated with tacrolimus and cyclosporine so we used the relevant data of calcineurin inhibitors to represent tacrolimus. In the Ponsetis study 33 prednisone was used as a concomitant therapy while prednisolone was used in the other four studies 23 31 32 34. Prednisone and prednisolone both belong to GC while prednisolone is the activated form of prednisolone. In the systematic reviews we regarded prednisone and prednisolone as the same drug. Fourth there was a disparity between the trial group and controlled group concerning the duration of MG. The characteristics of thymectomy and thymoma were not stratified either. Limited by the number of included trials we did not intend to make assessments of reporting bias subgroup analysis and sensitivity analysis.Agreements anddisagreements withother studies andreviewsIn some studies tacrolimus therapy exhibited a steroidsparing effect in patients with MG. A significant reduction of GC dose has been reported after long-term use of tacrolimus 2022 36.
But GC dose was significantly lower in the patients treated with tacrolimus plus GC at 30 and 36months 37. One short report demonstrated that GC dose was reduced by 37% in 7 patients of the 12 MG patients treated with tacrolimus for a maximum of 2years 19 compared with only three successful patients in the previous short-term study 26. The result suggested that long-term treatment of tacrolimus for MG could be more valid than short-term management. A retrospective clinical study showed that GC could be decreased and finally withdrawn in 95% MG patients given tacrolimus for nearly 50months 38. In the systematic review treatment with tacrolimus exhibited a statistically significant steroid-sparing effect at 6months compared with placebo. The lack of efficacy at 12months may attribute to the selection of refractory patients and unblinded distribution in the Utsugisawas trial 34.Several previous studies have demonstrated that tacrolimus could significantly improve the endpoints including QMG score 2022 36 as well as ADL score in MGpatients 17 22 39. Mitsui etal. reported that tacrolimus therapy for QMG score could be more beneficial in thymomatous MG compared with nonthymomatous MG 40. Besides Nagane etal.
However thymoma-associated MG patients usually involved severe symptoms and got higher QMG score before tacrolimus treatment. Furukawa etal. reported that compared with GC alone the difference of ADL score was not significant after 36months therapy with tacrolimus plus GC 37. It was possible that the conditions of the patients were not quite well during the course in the Utsugisawas study 34 thus less likely to exhibit a difference.Other studies have shown that long-term tacrolimus therapy could significantly decrease the AChR antibodies 20 21 36 39. One clinical study reported there was no significant difference in the ratio of serum AChR antibodies between the patients treated with tacrolimus plus GC and those treated with GC alone for 24months from the beginning of therapy. But the ratio of serum AChR antibodies was significantly lower in the patients treated with tacrolimus plus GC at 30 and 36months 37. Utsugisawa etal. reported despite remission of symptoms serum AChR antibodies was not reduced in the first month after tacrolimus therapy of MG 42. In this study compared with values before tacrolimus therapy AChR antibody ratio was not significantly lower at 1month but significantly lower up to 6months.
It was possible that the dose of tacrolimus could be too moderate to exhibit a statistical difference.Previously nephrotoxicity and infection were reported at high doses of tacrolimus used in organ transplantation. However the incidence of such adverse events was much lower in low-dose tacrolimus therapy in MG. Common side effects of tacrolimus included insomnia nausea vomiting hyperglycemia hypertension headache hyperkalemia nephrotoxicity neurotoxicity and diarrhea 3 43. Some studies also reported the development of malignancy in the treatment course of tacrolimus 17 20. However given the short interval between the start of tacrolimus therapy and diagnosis of solid tumor this side effect was not likely caused by tacrolimus. A five-year follow-up report demonstrated that there were no serious adverse effects in any of the MG patients with low-dose tacrolimus therapy and most side effects were considered to be related with GC use 44. Besides although tacrolimus and cyclosporine both worked by inhibiting calcineurin tacrolimus was 10100 times more effective than cyclosporine 45.
However a recent study demonstrated that tacrolimus might have a dosage-dependent efficacy 46. Compared with the low concentration group a better improvement of ADL score and reduction ratio of AChR antibody was observed in the adequate concentration group 4.8ng/mL. However the risk of early nephrotoxicity may be increased by 22% when the concentration of tacrolimus is raised by 1ng/mL 47. A balance between the better efficacy and lower concentration of tacrolimus should be further explored. Conclusions. end. Implications forpractice. Limited evidence from RCTs and CCTs suggests that tacrolimus therapy exhibits a trend of steroid-sparing effect without statistical difference. However it is effective in reducing QMG score and ADL score in MG patients compared with placebo at 6months. This outcome supports the evidence of observational studies retrospective studies and expert opinion. Implications forresearch. Future research should reach a consensus of the intervention duration and evaluation time. More RCTs of high quality with meta-regression should be performed to demonstrate the impact of covariables on the QMG and ADL score.Acknowledgements This work was supported by financial grants from the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning no.
2016YFC0901504.Compliance with ethical standardsConflicts of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest. Favorable Effects of Tacrolimus Monotherapy on Myasthenia Gravis Patients. Background and Purpose Tacrolimus TAC has been proven to be a rapid-acting steroid-sparing agent for myasthenia gravis MG therapy. However evidence related to the effectiveness of TAC alone is rare. Therefore this study was performed to investigate the effect of TAC monotherapy in MG patients. Methods Forty-four MG patients who received TAC monotherapy were retrospectively analyzed. A mixed effect model was used to analyze improvements in MG-specific activities of daily living scale MG-ADL quantitative MG score QMG and MG-ADL subscores. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the cumulative probability of minimal manifestations MM or better. Adverse events AEs were recorded for safety analyses. Results Of the patients receiving TAC monotherapy MG-ADL scores were remarkably improved at 3 6 and 12 months compared with scores at baseline mean difference and 95% CIs 3.29 4.94 1.64 3.97 5.67 2.27 and 4.67 6.48 2.85 respectively. QMG scores significantly decreased at 6 and 12 months with mean differences and 95% CIs of 4.676.88 2.45 and 5.77 7.55 4.00 respectively.
Ocular MG OMG and generalized MG GMG showed similar therapeutic effects in cumulative probabilities of MM or better P-value  0.764. A better response was observed in MG-ADL subscores for ptosis and bulbar symptoms. AEs occurred in 37.5% of patients and were generally mild and reversible. Conclusions TAC monotherapy is a promising option to rapidly alleviate all symptoms of MG especially for ptosis and bulbar symptoms. ORIGINAL RESEARCH published 27 October 2020 doi 10.3389/fneur.2020.594152Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 1 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152Edited by Nils Erik GilhusUniversity of Bergen NorwayReviewed by Naoki Kawaguchi Chiba University JapanCarmelo RodolicoUniversity of Messina ItalyCorrespondenceYuwei Dadayuwei100hotmail.comThese authors have contributedequally to this workSpecialty sectionThis article was submitted toNeuromuscular Diseasesa section of the journalFrontiers i. n NeurologyReceived 12 August 2020 Accepted 24 September 2020Published 27 October 2020CitationFan Z Li Z Shen F Zhang X Lei L Su S Lu Y Di L Wang M Xu M andDa Y 2020 Favorable Effects ofTacrolimus Monotherapy on Myasthenia Gravis Patients.Front. Neurol end. 11594152 end.
However evidence related tothe effectiveness of TAC alone is rare. Therefore this study was performed to investigatethe effect of TAC monotherapy in MG patients.Methods Forty-four MG patients who received TAC monotherapy were retrospectivelyanalyzed. A mixed effect model was used to analyze improvements in MG-specificactivities of daily living scale MG-ADL quantitative MG score QMG and MG-ADLsubscores. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the cumulative probabilityof minimal manifestations MM or better. Adverse events AEs were recorded forsafety analyses.Results Of the patients receiving TAC monotherapy MG-ADL scores were remarkablyimproved at 3 6 and 12 months compared with scores at baseline mean differenceand 95% CIs 3.29 4.94 1.64 3.97 5.67 2.27 and 4.67 6.482.85 respectively. QMG scores significantly decreased at 6 and 12 months withmean differences and 95% CIs of 4.676.88 2.45 and 5.77 7.55 4.00respectively. Estimated median period to achieve MM or better was 5.0 95% CIs 2.87.2 months. Ocular MG OMG and generalized MG GMG showed similar therapeuticeffects in cumulative probabilities of MM or better P-value  0.764. A better responsewas observed in MG-ADL subscores for ptosis and bulbar symptoms.
It is usually necessary for patients to maintain immunosuppression agent for many years even for their whole life 1 2. Corticosteroids are the most common immunosuppressive agents for MG patients. However long-term therapy of corticosteroids is usually limited by severe adverse events AEs mood symptoms and cosmetic problems 35. In recent decades non-steroidalimmunosuppressive agents including azathioprine AZA methotrexate MTX mycophenolate mofetil MMF and cyclosporine A CsA have been successfully used in conjunction with corticosteroids to reduce the dose and side effects of corticosteroids 6. However the relatively slow onset of action of AZA MTX and MMF and the severe nephrotoxicity of CsA limits their use in the treatment of MG 710.Tacrolimus TAC acts in a manner similar to CsA and exhibits a similar effect to CsA at concentrations 100 times lower 11. Moreover it has a lower incidence of nephrotoxicity than CsA 12. Several studies have proven that TAC co-administered with corticosteroids can rapidly improve myasthenic symptoms subjectively within 1 month and objectively at 23 months 1315. TAC is recommended to treat MG in different countries and the international MG treatment guidelines 2 16 17.
Meanwhile CsA monotherapy could significantly improve MG symptoms in RCTs 19 20. Therefore we speculate that TAC monotherapy would be a promising option for patients who refuse or cannot tolerate corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive agents.Herein we investigated the effectiveness and safety of TAC monotherapy in MG patients. We also analyzed the differential sensitivity to TAC for MG symptoms. MATERIALS AND METHODS. end. Participants. Data were collected from the Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University Myasthenia Gravis Trial Database from July 01 2017 to June 01 2020. A total of 185MG patients who received TAC therapy were identified. The following exclusion criteria were applied. Patients who had a QMG or MGADL score of 0 at baseline were excluded. Any patient who received intravenous immunoglobulin or plasma exchange within 4 weeks prior to the start of TAC administration was excluded. Patients who had undergone thymectomy or received other immunosuppressive agents within 24 weeks prior to the start of TAC administration were excluded. Concurrent use of cholinesterase inhibitors within the usual dosage range was permitted.
Four patients were excluded from effectiveness analyses who withdrew TAC within 1-month for AEs or patient decisions. ThereforeAbbreviations MG myasthenia gravis OMG ocular myasthenia gravis GMG generalizedmyasthenia gravis CsA cyclosporine A TAC tacrolimus AEs adverse events MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MG-ADL MGspecific activities of daily living scale QMG quantitative MG score MGFA-PIS MGFA post-intervention status IQR interquartile range 95%CI 95 % confidence intervals CIPS calcineurin-inhibitor induced pain syndrome.effectiveness analyses were evaluated in 44 patients for whom TAC monothera. py was maintained for more than 1 month Figure 1. Among them 17 patients with OMG started TAC monotherapy due to inadequate or no response to pyridostigmine 2. The most common problem that limited the use of corticosteroids was contraindications of corticosteroids 28/48 including osteoporosis poorly controlled hypertension and diabetes. The remaining 20 patients refused corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents due to potential adverse events. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University China No. 2017084 and was in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
Tacrolimus Therapeutic Regimens. All patients were treated with an initial daily dose of TAC 2mg. TAC was increased or Wuzhi tablets were added to achieve adequate TAC concentrations 4.810 ng/ml 21. The maintenance dose ranged from 2 to 4mg and was adjusted depending on clinical efficacy side effects and TAC concentrations. TAC concentrations were commonly measured in whole blood by microparticle enzyme immunoassay. Outcome Measurement and Follow-Up. The following characteristics of the patients were collected sex age at onset disease course serum antibodies thymus histopathology Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification MG-specific activities of daily living scale MG-ADL quantitative MG score QMG and MGFA post-intervention status PIS. The MG-ADL scores were assessed by follow-up at 1 3 6 and 12 months. A quantitative assessment of muscle strength with QMG scores provided further objective criteria for clinical improvement at 6-month and 12-month face-to-face clinic visits. In terms of PIS the classification of MM or better included minimal manifestations pharmacological remission and complete stable remission.
Next the probability of achieving MM or better was compared between subgroups of OMG and generalized MG GMG. Then the differential sensitivity to TAC monotherapy for MG symptoms was investigated by the improvement in MG-ADL subsocres. Safety was assessed by the incidence and severity of AEs and the incidence of AEs leading to drug withdrawal. Renal and liver function injury were assessed by elevation above the upper normal limit of blood urea nitrogen BUN/serum creatinine sCr and liver enzymes. Statistical Analysis. Data of categorical variables were represented as frequencies %. Data of continuous variables were represented as mean  standard deviation SD or median interquartile range IQR.Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 2 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152The linear mixed model for repeated measure analysis was used to compare MG-ADL QMG scores or MG-ADL subscores among different follow-up periods. The estimates and 95% confidence intervals CIs of coefficients in the model were presented to describe changes in MG-ADL QMG scores or MGADL subscores. The model included subjects as a random effect and follow-up period as a fixed effect.
For patients who withdrew TAC due to ineffectiveness the last collected data were used as records to be estimated during the remaining periods. No data were included in the effectiveness analyses at a particular time for patients who withdrew TAC due to AEs failed to have a visit or had not yet been followed this long. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS version 22.0.Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 3 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152aOnset age was younger than 50 years old. SD standard deviation IQR interquartile range n number of patients MG myasthenia gravis MGFA classification Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America clinical classification AChR acetylcholine receptor MuSK muscle-specific tyrosine kinase.The Bonferroni correction was used to decrease the risk of a type I error by adjusting the probability P-values. An adjusted value of P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. RESULTS end. end. Patient Characteristics. The demographic characteristics of 44MG patients 28 males 16 females are summarized in Table 1. The mean age at onset was 54.1  17.2 years old and 29.5% 13/44 of patients had early onset younger than 50 years old. Thymectomy was performed in eight patients 18.1%.
According to the MGFA classification there were 17 OMG and 27 GMG patients. The mean dose of TAC was 2.70 0.62mg and the mean TAC trough concentration was 6.21 2.59 ng/ml. Therapeutic Effects of TAC Monotherapy. The median values of MG-ADL and QMG scores during followup periods are shown in Table 2. The linear mixed model for repeated measurements showed significant improvements in both MG-ADL and QMG scores. Scores of MG-ADL at 3 6 and 12 months were significantly lower than those at baseline with mean differences and 95% CIs of 3.29 4.94 1.64 3.97 5.672.27 and 4.67 6.48 2.85 respectively Figure 2A. Scores of QMG at 6 and 12 months significantly decreased compared with scores at baselineIQR interquartile range MG-ADL myasthenia gravis-specific activities of daily living scale QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis score MG-ADL myasthenia gravis activities of daily living OMG ocular myasthenia gravis GMG generalized myasthenia gravis.in which the mean difference was 4.67 95% CIs 6.88 2.45 and 5.77 95% CIs 7.554.00 respectively Figure 2B. Remarkable improvements in MG-ADL and QMG scores were observed in both OMG and GMG patients and were beginning at 3 months in MG-ADL scores Figures 2CD.Up to 84.1% of patients reported subjective improvement within the first month.
The estimatedmedian period to achieve MM or better was 5.0 95% CIs 2.87.2 months. KaplanMeier analysis showed no differences in cumulative probabilities between OMG and GMG P-value  0.764 Figure 3B. The estimated median periods were 5.1 95% CIs 3.96.2 and 3.0 95% CIs 1.05.1 months for OMG and GMG respectively.The treatment was discontinued in 1 patient on days 95 and 2 patients on days 182 to 190 because it was judged to be ineffective by the treating physician Figure 1. No patients experienced exacerbation or developed a crisis during the follow-up period. Differential Sensitivity of TAC Monotherapy for MG Symptoms. A total of 68.2% of patients 30/44 reported subjective improvement of ptosis within the first month. The median values of MG-ADL subscores during follow-up periods are shown in Table 3. The linear mixed model showed significant improvements inMG-ADL subcores for ptosis and chewing from the first month and for talking and swallowing from 3 months compared with baseline P-value < 0.05 Figure 4. For the symptoms of diplopia and limbs subscores of MG-ADL showed no significant improvement until 6 months and 12 months respectively. For breathing difficulty no significant improvement was observed during the follow-up periods Figure 4.
An interesting finding in this study was that 25 patients 56.8% complained of photophobia or light sensitivity along with the onset of MG symptoms. Among them 44% of patients 11/25 achieved clinical improvement and 16% of patients 4/25 got remissionFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 4 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152FIGURE 2  Therapeutic effects of tacrolimus monotherapy. AB Therapeutic effects in all patients were evaluated by changes in MG-ADL scores A and by changes in QMG scores B. CD Therapeutic effects in subgroups of OMG and GMG were evaluated by changes in MG-ADL C and by changes in QMG scores D. The effect was the mean difference of MG-ADL or QMG scores during the follow-up periods. Statistical analysis was performed by linear mixed model for repeated measurements with Bonferroni correction. QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis score MG-ADL myasthenia gravis activities of daily living OMG ocular myasthenia gravis GMG generalized myasthenia gravis.in photophobia after 6 months treatment. Almost all of patients with photophobia had symptom of ptosis 24/25. Five of these patients 20.8% reported clinical improvement of photophobia earlier than or along with the improvement of ptosis. Safety of TAC Monotherapy.
The most frequent AEs were BUN/sCr elevation 4/48 8.33% and liver enzyme elevation 3/48 6.25%. Two patients experienced joint pain which has never been reported in MG patients with TAC therapy before. Four patients who had BUN/sCr elevation were relatively old the median age was 68.5 years old. All of them had a long history of hypertension range 522 years and two of them had diabetes mellitus. AEs that led to therapy discontinuation occurred in seven patients on days 6 to 185 Figure 1. All AEs were mildand resolved after dose reduction or drug withdrawal. No deaths occurred during the follow-up period. DISCUSSION. Our study showed that TAC monotherapy could significantly reduce MG-ADL and QMG scores and induce remission of various symptoms in both OMG and GMG patients. A better prognosis and a more rapid onset of action were observed for ptosis and bulbar symptoms talking chewing and swallowing than for diplopia dyspnea and limb weakness. In addition side effects were mild and reversible during the 12-month followup period.
A Cumulative probability of achieving MM or better in all patients. The cumulative probability of achieving MM or better was 4.5 39.3 and 62.1% at 1 month 3 months and 6 months respectively. Finally it rose to 73.2% at 12 months. B Cumulative probability of achieving MM or better in subgroups of OMG and GMG. A log-rank test was used for the comparison of treatment outcome between subgroups of OMG and GMG. Crossing marks indicated censoring time MM or better included MGFA post-intervention status of minimal manifestations pharmacological remission and complete stable remission. aNumber of patients who were still in the study and did not achieve MM or better at the end of specified time. OMG ocular myasthenia gravis GMG generalized myasthenia gravis.aLimbs included upper and lower limbs. MG-ADL myasthenia gravis-specific activities of daily living scale n number of patients with the symptom at baseline.TAC monotherapy had favorable effects on the outcome of most patients in our study. TAC has been proven to be a steroid-sparing immunosuppressive agent 22 and showed significant improvement in MG-ADL and QMG scores in combination with corticosteroids 13 23. In our study among 44 patients who took TAC alone 84.1% reported improvement within the first month.
Six months later more than 65% of individuals achieved MM or better. Monotherapy with TAC in MG patients showed similar rapid onset of action clinical effectiveness and stable remission to those in whom TAC was coadministered with corticosteroids 1315. Our results suggested that TAC monotherapy is a reasonable option for patients who refuse or have contraindications for corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents.The sensitivity to TAC monotherapy for various symptoms was differential. Wakata reported that the symptoms of lower extremities grip strength ptosis and swallowing responded well to TAC in combination with corticosteroids 24. The percentage improvement in the non-facial composite arm and leg outstretch times grip forced vital capacity and head lift was less than that for vision and facial ptosis diplopia swallowing and chewing with CsA alone or CsA co-administered with corticosteroids 19 20. In our study a better response and a more rapid onset of action were observed for ptosis and bulbar symptoms talking chewing swallowing than for diplopia dyspnea and limb weakness. Therefore TAC monotherapy could be recommended as the initial treatment for GMG patients with bulbar symptoms and for OMG patients with ptosis who had an inadequate response to pyridostigmine.
Accordingly for young patientsFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 6 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 7 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152with diplopia who refuse corticosteroids due to potential AEs or cosmetic problems doctors are suggested to persuade them to accept corticosteroids or in conjunction with TAC to achieve adequate responses quickly. Several studies demonstrated that early stages of disease thymoma and adequate TAC concentration were associated with responsiveness to TAC co-administered with corticosteroids 21 25. Differential sensitivity for MG symptoms might be a potential predictive factor for effectiveness of TACmonotherapy. Therefore multiple regression analysis with a larger sample size is required for further precision medicine.The most interesting finding in our study was that 56.8% 25/44 of patients complained of photophobia or light sensitivity. They had to wear sunglasses indicating that the intraocular muscles were involved in these patients. Slow pupillary responses and fatigability to light in MG have been reported in several studies 26 27. The symptoms of photophobia or light sensitivity in our patients could be caused by dysfunction of the pupillary light reflex in bright sunlight.
Two smooth muscles the sphincter muscle and the dilator muscle comprise the iris and determine pupil dynamics 28. Lu reported pupillary dysfunction in MG not only involved the sphincter muscle but also the dilator muscle 27. Muscarinic and nicotinic AChR receptors are localized in the sphincter muscle and the dilator muscle respectively 29. Most cases of MG were positive in antibodies against nicotinic AChR receptors. Antibodies against muscarinic AChR receptors have been detected in MG patients 30. Damaged muscarinic AChR receptors in sphincter muscle and nicotinic AChR receptors in dilator muscle might be the pathogenic mechanism of photophobia. However the pathogenicity remains to be established. After MG treatments symptoms of photophobia improved in 60% of patients which indicated that photophobia in these patients was related to MG. Other common conditions associated photophobia including ophthalmological pathology neurological disorders psychiatric disorders or drugs should be considered in the remaining 40% of patients who had a poor prognosis of photophobia 31. Most of them only had mild weakness of the orbicular eye muscle instead of difficulties in closing eyes. Typical symptoms of conjunctival infections were absence during the follow-up visits.
It is unclear whether they had visual refraction defects or cataract in our retrospective study. Therefore periodic ophthalmological evaluations should be concerned in patients with poor prognosis of photophobia. The improvement of ptosis may concern with photophobia in part of patients. However the alleviation of photophobia in most patients was delayed than that of ptosis. Thus ptosis and photophobia should be evaluated as two separated symptoms.Monotherapy with TAC in 48MG patients showed a favorable safety profile. Surprisingly a different profile of AEs was found contrasting with previous studies in which TAC was usually co-administered with corticosteroids 22 23 32 33. There wereno reports of AEs linked to nephrotoxicity in most previous MG studies with TAC 22 23 33. BUN or sCr elevation was found in 8.33% of patients in our study partly because physicians paid close attention to renal damage of TAC and reported AEs once the elevation was above the upper normal limits. It has been reported that TAC nephrotoxicity originates from a strong vasoconstrictive effect. A high TAC whole-blood concentration and a history of hypertension could increase the risk of renal damage in organ transplantation patients 34.
Thus old MG patients with long-term hypertension need more frequent monitoring of subclinical renal damage and renal function when using TAC. Another AE reversible joint pain was found for the first time in two patients in our study. Joint pain is a rare but debilitating AE in organ transplantation patients with TAC treatment. It gradually receded after TAC withdrawal. This phenomenon was named calcineurin inhibitor-induced pain syndrome CIPS 35. The reason was suspected as a calcineurin inhibitor-induced vascular disturbance of bone perfusion and permeability causing bone marrow edema 35. The final diagnosis of CIPS requires further examinations including bone mineral density tests bone scintigraphy and magnetic resonance imaging 36.There are several limitations in this study. First the retrospective nature a relatively small sample size and no controlled group for comparison weakened the evidences of our results. First the limited sample size of patients who had dyspnea or limb weakness provided inadequate evidence of sensitivity for these symptoms. Second loss to follow-up was reported in eight patients in effectiveness analysis. Among them the therapeutic effects were estimated according to the last records in four patients who withdrew TAC due to ineffectiveness.
Last most patients evaluated had either OMG or mild GMG MGFA clinical classification type II. There were only seven patients classified as MGFA type III or IV. More patients with MGFA type III or IV or high-quality RCT trials will be needed to further prove the efficacy of TAC monotherapy in MG patients. CONCLUSIONS. TAC monotherapy is a fast-acting and efficacious regimen to alleviate all common symptoms of both OMG and GMG especially for patients with ptosis and bulbar symptoms. Close monitoring of renal function is essential for older patients with hypertension. DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT. The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 8 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152. ETHICS STATEMENT. The studies involving human participants were reviewed and approved by Ethics Committee of Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University China No. 2017084 end. Written informed consent to participate in this study was provided by the participants legal guardian/next of kin. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS. ZF contributed with drafting and revising the manuscript study concept and design acquisition of data and statistical analysis.
FS XZ LL and SS contributed with acquisition of data. YL LD MW and MX contributed with revising the manuscript and interpretation of the data.YD contributed with drafting and revising the manuscript study concept and design and interpretation of the data. All authors contributed to the article and approved the submitted version. FUNDING end. This work was supported by Clinical Cohort Study of Myasthenia Gravis National Key RDProgram of China PrecisionMedicine Project No. 2017YFC0907700. SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL. The Supplementary Material for this article can be found online at https//www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fneur. 2020.594152/fullsupplementary-material. Myasthenia gravis unmasked by imatinib. A 40-year-old man presented with drooping of both eyelids and generalized weakness of two weeks duration. The symptoms were worse during the evening. He had been diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukaemia CML in chronic phase four months previously and was receiving regular imatinib 400 mg/day. After three weeks of therapy he had achieved a complete haematological response and his constitutional symptoms had subsided. After three months of therapy he showed a two-log reduction of BCR-ABL1 transcript. On presentation he had bilateral ptosis left.
A provisional diagnosis of ocular myasthenia gravis was made. He showed improvement in ptosis after administration of neostigmine. Repetitive nerve stimulation and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody serology were positive confirming the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. He was started on pyridostigmine and prednisolone. Computed tomography of his chest showed a 2 7 9 1 7 cm mass in the anterior mediastinum for which he underwent thymectomy. Histopathological examination showed thymic hyperplasia. He is currently asymptomatic with marked improvement in ptosis right and has achieved a partial molecular response BCR-ABL1 transcript level 1 113%. Many cases of drug-induced myasthenia gravis have been reported. Drugs implicated include ribavirin statins fluoroquinolones interferon fludarabine chloroquine penicillamine busulfan and carbamazepine. Development of myasthenia gravis during treatment with nilotinib has also been reported in a patient with CML. In the current case myasthenia gravis was unmasked when the patient was treated with imatinib. Triggering of myasthenia by tyrosine kinase inhibitors and certain other drugs may be related to a disturbance of immune function.
A 40-year-old man presented with drooping of both eyelids and generalized weakness of two weeks duration. The symptoms were worse during the evening. He had been diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukaemia CML in chronic phase four months previously and was receiving regular imatinib 400 mg/day. After three weeks of therapy he had achieved a complete haematological response and his constitutional symptoms had subsided. After three months of therapy he showed a two-log reduction of BCR-ABL1 transcript. On presentation he had bilateral ptosis left. Physical examination was otherwise normal. A provisional diagnosis of ocular myasthenia gravis was made. He showed improvement in ptosis after administration of neostigmine. Repetitive nerve stimulation and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody serology were positive confirming the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. He was started on pyridostigmine and prednisolone. Computed tomography of his chest showed a 2 7 9 1 7 cm mass in the anterior mediastinum for which he underwent thymectomy. Histopathological examination showed thymic hyperplasia. He is currently asymptomatic with markedimprovement in ptosis right and has achieved a partial molecular response BCR-ABL1 transcript level 1 113%.
Drugs implicated include ribavirin statins fluoroquinolones interferon fludarabine chloroquine penicillamine busulfan and carbamazepine. Development of myasthenia gravis during treatment with nilotinib has also been reported in a patient with CML. In the current case myasthenia gravis was unmasked when the patient was treated with imatinib. Triggering of myasthenia by tyrosine kinase inhibitors and certain other drugs may be related to a disturbance of immune function. However other possibilities including a paraneoplastic manifestation of CML or co-incidental occurrence of myasthenia gravis and CML cannot be ruled out. Chirag R end. Kopp1 Aditya Jandial2 Kundan Mishra12  Rajeev Sandal12 and Pankaj Malhotra12. end. Departments of 1Internal Medicine and 2Clinical Haematology Post. Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Chandigarh. India end. E-mail mishrak20gmail.com. 2018 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley  Sons Ltd doi 10.1111/bjh.15557. Sensitivity to Vecuronium in Seropositive and Seronegative Patients with Myasthenia Gravis. Patients with myasthenia gravis MG are hypersensitive to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs.
Little is known about differences in sensitivity to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs between MG patients with and without anti-AChR antibody. Hypothesizing that seronegative patients are as sensitive to vecuronium as seropositive patients we assessed sensitivity in seropositive and seronegative MG patients and in non-MG patients n 8 each. During anesthesia with sevoflurane 2.5% and nitrous oxide 60% in oxygen neuromuscular transmission was monitored by measuring the twitch tension of the adductor pollicis muscle with supramaximal stimulation. After baseline measurements 10 g/kg IV dose increments of vecuronium were administered sequentially until blockade exceeded 90%. The degree of blockade and onset time after the initial 10 g/kg of vecuronium were assessed and doses required to exceed 90% blockade were recorded. In addition effective doses of 50% and 95% for vecuronium were calculated from a single data point. Both types of MG patients showed increased sensitivity to vecuronium compared with non-MG patients. Sensitivity to Vecuronium in Seropositive and Seronegative. end. Patients with Myasthenia Gravis.
Although antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor AChR often are observed in MG patients 10% to 30% of patients do not show an anti-AChR antibody. Little is known about differences in sensitivity to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs between MG patients with and without anti-AChR antibody. Hypothesizing that seronegative patients are as sensitive to vecuronium as seropositive patients we assessed sensitivity in seropositive and seronegative MG patients and in non-MG patients n 8 each. During anesthesia with sevoflurane 2.5% and nitrous oxide 60% in oxygen neuromuscular transmission wasmonitored by measuring the twitch tension of the adductor pollicis muscle with supramaximal stimulation. After baseline measurements 10 g/kg IV dose increments of vecuronium were administered sequentially until blockade exceeded 90%. The degree of blockade and onset time after the initial 10 g/kg of vecuronium were assessed and doses required to exceed 90% blockade were recorded. In addition effective doses of 50% and 95% for vecuronium were calculated from a single data point.
Numbers and half-life of AChR are diminished by an antibodyrelated reaction. However approximately 10% to 30% of MG patients lack increased anti-AChR antibody in serum 13 although they respond to therapy for autoimmune disorders. An antibody in these seronegative patients apparently interferes with neuromuscular transmission by binding to determinants other than those on the AChR. Mossman et al. 4 have suggested that this type of seronegative myasthenia is immunologically and physiologically distinct from the seropositive type and thus seronegative MG patients might show different responses to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs NMBDs from seropositive patients. However little is known about this possibility there is only a case report by Kim andMangold 5. We compared seropositive MG patients seronegative MG patients and non-MG patients with thymoma in terms of neuromuscular responses to vecuronium at the adductor pollicis muscle. Methods end. After receiving approval of the study protocol from the institutional ethics committee and obtaining patients informed consent we studied consecutive seropositive MG patients seronegative MG patients and non-MG thymoma patients n 8 each. Five of these patients have already been described 6.
The diagnosis of MG was confirmed by typical clinical and laboratory findings ptosis diplopia limb weakness a decremental conduction response on electrical stimulation and a positive response to IV injection of 10 mg of edrophonium. Before surgery seropositive patients showed an excess of binding or blocking antibodies to AChR in serum. To measure binding antibody 125I-labeled -bungarotoxin was allowed to bind with antigenic human AChR 125I-AChR. Sera from patients were Accepted for publication February 28 2002. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Hironori Itoh MD Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine Kanazawa University School of Medicine 13-1 Takara-machi Kanazawa 920-8641 Japan. Address e-mail to hironorimed.kanazawa-u.ac.jp.2002 by the International Anesthesia Research Society 0003-2999/02 Anesth Analg 20029510913 109incubated with 125I-AChR. Antigen-antibody complexes were precipitated by incubation with antihuman immunoglobulin G. Radioactivity in the precipitate was measured with a gamma counter 7. To measure blocking antibody sera from patients and controls were incubated with prepared antigenic AChR followed by incubation with 125I-labeled -bungarotoxin.
Anticholinesterase medication was continued until the morning of surgery. The non-MG patients were ASA grade I or II patients with hepatic renal or neuromuscular disease and those taking any medications known to interfere with neuromuscular transmission were excluded.Hydroxyzine 25 to 50 mg and atropine 0.5 mg were injected IM as premedication 1 h before the induction of anesthesia. Anesthesia was induced with 4 to 6 mg/kg of thiopental and 2 g/kg of fentanyl followed by sevoflurane 2.5% and nitrous oxide 60% in oxygen. The lungs were ventilated by mask so that end-tidal CO2 pressure was maintained at approximately 40 mm Hg. Skin temperature over the thenar region was monitored and maintained at 32C to 33C. Arterial blood pressure was measured noninvasively every 5 min if systolic blood pressure decreased to 80 mm Hg 5 mg of ephedrine was administered IV. Neuromuscular transmission was monitored by measuring the twitch tension of the adductor pollicis muscle. The ulnar nerve was stimulated with supramaximal train-of-four TOF square pulses of 0.2 ms duration every 12 s at the wrist with surface electrodes. After patients were rested for at least 10 min to allow the continuous response to stabilize the baseline height of the first twitch first TOF response T1 was measured.
After baseline measurements an initial dose of 10 g/kg of vecuronium was administered IV. The next incremental dose of vecuronium of 10 g/kg was given after three consecutive T1 values remained unchanged. When baseline T1 remained unchanged for 4 min after an initial dose of 10 g/kg of vecuronium the next incremental dose was given. As long as the percentage of neuromuscular blockade defined as 1 T1/ baseline T1 100 remained 90% additional increments of 10 g/kg were added until 90% or more blockade had been achieved. The trachea then was intubated and the inspired concentration of sevoflurane was decreased to 0.5% to 1.5%. Responses in the adductor pollicis muscles were monitored continuously.Initial blockade by vecuronium 10 g/kg and the onset of blockade were calculated according to thefollowing definitions initial blockade was the maximum neuromuscular blockade achieved after the initial dose of vecuronium 10 g/kg onset of blockade was the time interval from the injection of the initial dose of vecuronium to initial blockade. Doses required to achieve 90% blockade also were recorded.
Then inhalation of sevoflurane was terminated and after patients were able to open their eyes the tracheal tube was removed without anticholinesterase administration except for one seronegative patient. The patient needed 40 h for recovering from the blockade by vecuronium.In addition we calculated the effective doses of 50% and 95% ED50 and ED95 for vecuronium from a single data point by using the final observed effect  100% and a log-dose/logit slope of 4.5 9 except for the patients who showed 100% blockade by initial dose. This can be done from a single data point if the slope of the dose-response relationship is assumed. The ED95 values of these supersensitive patients were arbitrarily assigned as 9 g/kg and the ED50 value was assigned as 4.7 g/kg derived from a log-dose/ logit slope of 4.5.Parametric data are presented as the mean sd and nonparametric data are presented as the median and range. Parametric data were analyzed with Students t-test or one-way analysis of variance with Scheffes comparisons. Nonparametric data were assessed with the Mann-Whitney U-test or the KruskalWallis test with Scheffes comparisons. A P value 0.05 was considered to indicate significance. Results end.
The duration of disease in seropositive patients was significantly longer than that in seronegative patients. Among seropositive MG patients three patients represented Type I MG according to the Osserman and Genkins classification 10 four patients Type IIA and one patient Type IIB. Among seronegative MG patients four were Type I and four were Type IIA. Four patients in the Seropositive group showed excesses of both binding and blocking antibodies to AChR whereas three patients showed only an increase in binding antibody. One patient was not investigated for blocking antibody but because binding antibody was increased we considered the patient to be seropositive. Four seropositive patients and two seronegative patients were treated with pyridostigmine. Before vecuronium was administered TOF ratios were66% to 100% in seropositive patients 23% to 98% in seronegative patients and 95% to 100% in non-MG patients. A significant difference was seen between seronegative and non-MG patients. After 10 g/kg of vecuronium was administered the initial blockade was 0% to 100% in seropositive patients and 16% to 100% in seronegative patients all non-MG patients showed 0% blockade.
The onset of blockade could not be analyzed because one seropositive patient showed 0% blockade. Doses required to achieve 90% blockade were 10 to 40 g/kg in seropositive patients 10 to 30 g/kg in seronegative patients and 30 to 40 g/kg in non-MG patients. Significant differences were observed between the MG and non-MG groups but not between seropositive and seronegative patients. ED50 and ED95 also showed a higher potency for vecuronium in MG groups than in non-MG patients but were not significant between seropositive and seronegative MG patients Table 2. Discussion. In this study varied degrees of increased sensitivity to vecuronium were seen in MG patients. Of the 16 MGpatients including seropositive and seronegative subjects 12 required no more than 20 g/kg of vecuronium to achieve 90% blockade among non-MG patients all needed at least 30 g/kg of vecuronium to achieve such blockade. ED50 and ED95 were also significantly lower in MG patients than in non-MG patients. Thus MG patients generally showed hypersensitivity to vecuronium but some showed only a normal reaction to vecuronium at least in the adductor pollicis muscle.In neurologically healthy patients the neuromuscular junction has a large excess of receptor sites.
In MG patients this margin of safety is considered to be reduced according to severity of disease. Because sensitivity to nondepolarizing NMBDs is increased in MG patients 1216 we used an initial dose of 10 g/kg of vecuronium which is considerably smaller than the usual dose especially because sensitivity to nondepolarizing NMBDs is known to vary greatly between MG patients. In our patients all non-MG patients showed 0% blockade with 10 g/kg whereas only one MG patient did.How detectable antibodies to AChR are related to sensitivity to nondepolarizing NMBDs has been unclear. Nilsson and Meretoja 13 reported a significantcorrelation between the ED95 for vecuronium and AChR antibody titers in MG patients obtaining a logarithmic curve for the relationship. However a contrary result has been reported 16. Although one report concluded that the severity of MG was roughly related to the titer of anti-AChR antibody and the degree of destruction of the junctional membrane 17 studies have found no relationship between AChR antibody titers and severity of symptoms in individual patients 1820.Approximately 10% to 30% of MG patients do not show anti-AChR antibody increases in serum 13.
Infants born to seronegative and seropositive mothers with MG may have transient neonatal MG 21. Plasma exchange and immunosuppressive therapy such as the administration of prednisolone and azathioprine result in clinical improvement 242223. Mice injected with plasmaimmunoglobulin fractions from seronegative MG patients showed a defect in neuromuscular transmission characterized by increased sensitivity to d-tubocurarine 4. Moreover some seronegative patients have shown prejunctional changes suggesting that seronegative MG may be a heterogenous disorder 1. Mossman et al. 4 suggested that seronegative myasthenia was immunologically and physiologically distinct from the seropositive type. The target of antibodies relating to seronegative MG is thought to be a constituent of the neuromuscular junction other than the AChR. Despite reported immunologic and physiologic differences between seronegative and seropositive MG the pharmacodynamics of vecuronium were not clearly different between the two disease types in this study.Some investigators have reported differing severity of MG between seropositive and seronegative patients 13. Oh 3 showed a tendency toward more marked impairment in seropositive patients than in seronegative patients but this difference was notTable 2.
96   360 20 9.9 19.0 3 93 76 100   280 20 7.7 14.9 4 98 16 88 97  230 30 13.9 26.7 5 95 53 97   230 20 9.2 17.8 6 81 100    190 10 4.7 9.0 7 62 100    170 10 4.7 9.0 8 23 96    220 10 4.9 9.593 2398 66.5 16100 20 1030 8.2 3.3 15.8 6.4 Non-MG1 98 0 0 0 92  40 23.2 44.7 2 99 0 0 0 93  40 22.5 43.3 3 98 0 73 100   30 16.0 30.8 4 99 0 77 100   30 15.3 29.4 5 96 0 14 94   30 16.3 31.3 6 100 0 0 80 91  40 24.0 46.0 7 98 0 66 88 100  40 19.3 37.1 8 95 0 65 94   30 16.3 31.399 95100 0 0 35 3040 19.1 3. 6 36.8 7.0MG myasthenia gravis T1 T4 first and fourth response from train-of-four TOF stimulation TOF ratio T4/T1 100% onset time time interval between initial injection of 10 g/kg of vecuronium and blockade total dose sum of doses required to achieve 90% blockade ED50 95 effective doses of 50% and 95%.Values are median and range mean sd or %. P 0.05 versus non-MG.statistically significant. Vincent et al. 1 reported that in 480 consecutive MG patients clinical features in seronegative patients generally did not differ from those in seropositive patients. In particular the proportion of patients within the various Osserman classes was very similar.
Inhaled anesthetics decrease the availability of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction 24 and increase the neuromuscular blockade produced by nondepolarizing NMBDs 2527 although this pattern has not yet been confirmed in MG patients the possibility was demonstrated in a case report 28. Taivainen and Meretoja 25 showed that the ED50 and ED95 for vecuronium in the presence of 1 minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration of sevoflurane were 64% and 50% less respectively than values obtained without inhaled anesthetics in neurologically healthy patients. Blockade in MG patients in this study may have been influenced by sevoflurane. We do not believe that background anesthetics affected the result of the study which compared the two types of MG with respect to the sensitivity of vecuronium although it makes potency comparisons with other studies unnecessarily difficult. In addition during the test period the lungs were ventilated by mask and the end-tidal concentration of sevoflurane was not measured. An unstable concentration of sevoflurane might influence the blockade by vecuronium. Two non-MG patients showed a very steep dose-response reaction with 40 g/kg despite no reaction with 30 g/ kg.
Both seropositive and seronegative MG patients showed hypersensitivity to nondepolarizing NMBDs. The degree of blockade resulting from a given dose is likely to be the same in seropositive and seronegative MG patients. sbCorticosteroids have been useful in the management of myasthenia gravis MG but their efficacy has been limited by the slow onset of improvement initial worsening of MG refractoriness of some patients and side effects of large daily doses. High-dose intravenous methyl- prednisolone pulses have been reported to produce rapid improvement in several immunologic disorders. In this study we administered 2 g of methylprednisolone intravenously every five days to 15 consecutive patients who had exacerbation of generalized MG. Satisfactory improvement occurred in ten of 15 patients after two courses and in two of five patients after a third course. Onset of improvement began a mean m-SDof 3 m-1.1 days after the first infusion 2.1 m-1 days after the second and 2.4 m-1 days after the third and reached its maximum level 8.9 m- 6.1days after the last infusion. A decrease in strength occurred in three patients 1.43 m-1.30 days after each infusion was not marked and lasted three days following which improvement generally occurred. Side effects were minimal.
Use of pulse therapy at five-day intervals for the management of severe MG seems to have an advantage in that it produces less initial worsening and. Quality of life in purely ocular myasthenia in Japan. Background Since there has been no conclusive evidence regarding the treatment of ocular myasthenia treatment guidelines were recently issued by the European Federation of Neurological Societies/European Neurological Society EFNS/ENS. However the therapeutic outcomes concerning the quality-of-life QOL of patients with ocular myasthenia are not yet fully understood. Methods We investigated the therapeutic outcomes of patients with purely ocular myasthenia in a multicenter cross-sectional survey in Japan. To evaluate the severity of ocular symptoms we used the ocular-quantitative MG QMG score advocated by Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. We used the Japanese translated version of the MG-QOL15 a self-appraised scoring system. Results Of 607 myasthenia gravis MG patients with an observation-duration of illness 2 years the cases of 123 patients 20% were limited to ocular muscles purely ocular myasthenia. During the entire clinical course 81 patients experienced both ptosis and diplopia 36 had ptosis alone and six had diplopia alone.
Treatment improved ocular symptoms with the mean reduction in ocular-QMG score of 2.3  1.8 points. However 47 patients 38% failed to gain minimal manifestation or a better status. Patients with unfavorable outcomes also self-reported severe QOL impairment. Multivariate analyses showed that the pretreatment ocular-QMG score was associated with unfavorable outcomes but not associated with the patients QOL. Conclusion A treatment strategy designed in accord with a patients ocular presentation must be considered in order to improve ocular symptoms and the patients QOL. Background Since there has been no conclusive evidence regarding the treatment of ocular myasthenia treatment guidelines were recently issued by the European Federation of Neurological Societies/European Neurological Society EFNS/ENS. However the therapeutic outcomes concerning the quality-of-life QOL of patients with ocular myasthenia are not yet fully understood.Methods We investigated the therapeutic outcomes of patients with purely ocular myasthenia in a multicenter cross-sectional survey in Japan. To evaluate the severity of ocular symptoms we used the ocular-quantitative MG QMG score advocated by Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America.
During the entire clinical course 81 patients experienced both ptosis and diplopia 36 had ptosis alone and six had diplopia alone. Acetyl-cholinesterase inhibitors and prednisolone were used in 98 and 52 patients respectively. Treatment improved ocular symptoms with the mean reduction in ocular-QMG score of 2.3  1.8 points. However 47 patients 38% failed to gain minimal manifestation or a better status. Patients with unfavorable outcomes also self-reported severe QOL impairment. Multivariate analyses showed that the pretreatment ocular-QMG score was associated with unfavorable outcomes but not associated with the patients QOL.Conclusion A treatment strategy designed in accord with a patients ocular presentation must be considered in order to improve ocular symptoms and the patients QOL.Keywords Ocular myasthenia Ocular-quantitative myasthenia gravis score Quality-of-life Therapeutic outcome. Background. Ocular myasthenia is a form of myasthenia gravis MG that is clinically restricted to extrinsic ocular muscles 12. Clinical signs of ocular myasthenia can be highly variable ranging from mild unilateral ptosis to complete opthalmoplegia. Ptosis and diplopia may be present involving various combinations of the levator palpebrae the two obliques and the four recti muscles.
ovided the or Dedication waiver http//creativecommons.or unless otherwise stated.autoimmune attacks 13. Almost one-half of MG patients present with ocular symptoms and 50%60% progress to the generalized disease mostly within the first 2 years 45. The percentage of patients with MG who suffer from purely ocular symptoms during the entire course has been reported to be 12%20% of the whole MG population 1245. Several studies reported that corticosteroid was effective for preventing the progression from ocular myasthenia to generalized MG 6-11. However a systematic review concluded that there was no clear evidence supporting corticosteroid use for ocular myasthenia 12. In addition to generalization from ocular myasthenia the treatment of ocular symptoms in purely ocular myasthenia has varied since neurologists had to select treatment regimensLtd. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative ommons.org/licenses/by/4.0 which permits unrestricted use distribution and iginal work is properly credited. The Creative Commons Public Domain g/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ applies to the data made available in this articlebased on the particular ocular symptoms of their patients.
To the best of our knowledge there are no reports of therapeutic outcomes that include the patients quality-of-life QOL in a large number of patients with purely ocular myasthenia. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the therapeutic outcomes of purely ocular myasthenia including QOL measures in a cross-sectional survey from numerous centers in Japan. Methods end. Eleven neurological centers participated in the present study as the Japan MG Registry Group. We evaluated patients with established MG who attended these centers between April and July 2012. To avoid potential bias we enrolled consecutive patients with various stages of illness over a short duration in this multicenter cross-sectional study. All clinical information was collected after the patients gave their written informed consent.
Hospital the ethics committee of Nagasaki University Hospital and the ethics committee of Nagasaki Kawatana Medical Center. The diagnosis of MG was based on clinical findings fluctuating symptoms with easy fatigability and recovery after rest with amelioration of symptoms after an intravenous administration of acetyl-cholinesterase AChE inhibitors decremental muscle response to a train of low-frequency repetitive nerve stimuli or the presence of antibodies against skeletal muscle acetylcholine receptor AChR 1. We excluded other disorders which caused ptosis and/or diplopia using various examinations especially in anti-AChR negative patients. At some of the participating institutions single-fiber electromyography was used to detect jitter phenomena in the orbicularis oculi muscles. Clinical information was retrospectively obtained by reviewing the patients clinical charts. The patients clinical features were evaluated according to the Task Force of the Medical Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA 14. To evaluate the severity of ocular symptoms we used the MGFA ocular-quantitative MG QMG score which includeslevator function extraocular muscle function and the strength of orbicularis oculi among the 13 items of the QMG score 15.
Therapeutic outcomes were assessed by the MGFA post-interventional status and the patients QOL. We used the Japanese translated version of the MG-QOL15 MG-QOL15-J 17 a self-appraised scoring system. It was simple easy to administer user-friendly and quick to assess the impact of a disease. The spectrum of treatment included AChE inhibitors corticosteroids other immunosuppressants high-dose intravenous methylpredonisolone pulse therapy mPSL high doses of immunoglobulin IVIg plasmapheresis and extended thymectomy. Among the AChE inhibitors drugs pyridostigmine bromide Mestinon was usually used. Among oral corticosteroids prednisolone PSL was generally used. The purpose of an additional use of immunosuppressants was to taper the dose of PSL and to reduce the side effects of PSL. Since the use of tacrolimus and cyclosporine was approved by the Japanese Ministry of Welfare in 2000 and 2006 other immunosuppressants including azathioprine and mycophenolate are principally not used in Japan. Plasmapheresis was performed for immunoadsorption using a tryptophan column TR-350 Asahi Medical Tokyo.
Comparisons between the favorable and unfavorable outcomes were made using the chi-square test or the MannWhitney U-test when appropriate. A multivariate analysis was performed using the Cox proportional hazards regression model to determine independent factors associated with unfavorable outcomes. The statistical analyses were performed using IBM/SPSS software version 20 Armonk NY. Results end. For the investigation of the clinical features of purely ocular myasthenia MG patients with an observation-duration of illness  2 years were enrolled. Of 607 MG patients 123 20% patients who showed the worst condition graded MGFA class 1 were regarded as having purely ocular myasthenia. Their mean age was age 60.9  15.8 years and the male/female ratio was 5469. The observational period was 7.8  6.0 years. Forty-one patients had early-onset MG 68 patients had late-onset MG and the cases of 14 patients were thymoma-associated. During the entire clinical course 81 patients 66% experienced both ptosis and diplopia 36 29% had ptosis alone and six 5% had diplopia alone. Although anti-AChR antibodies were detected in 92 patientsno patients had anti-muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodies.
The current dose of pyridostigmine was 101.0  66.7 mg/day. The maximum dose of PSL was 20.4  13.0 mg/day. Figure 1 shows the distribution of pre- and post-treatment ocular-QMG scores in all 123 patients with purely ocular myasthenia. The mean reduction in ocular-QMG score was 2.3  1.8 points and the reductions ranged from 4.0  1.8 points to 1.7  2.0 points. The MGFA post-interventional status was complete stable remission in 16 patients 13% pharmacological remission in six 5% minimal manifestation MM in 54 44% improved in 23 19% and unchanged in 24 20%. We considered MM or better status i.e. pharmacological remission or complete stable remission as a practical treatment goal 17. Seventy-six 62% of all patients with ocular myasthenia achieved MM or better status i.e. a favorable outcome. In contrast 47 38% patients failed to gain MM or better status i.e. an unfavorable outcome. We divided the 123 patients with purely ocular myasthenia into two groups 76 patients with the favorable outcome and 47 patients with the unfavorable outcome. The demographic and clinical features of the two groups are given in Table 1. There were no significant between group differences in gender age observational period ocular symptoms disease subtype or seropositivity of anti-AChR antibodies.
The current dose of pyridostigmine was significantly higher in the patients with unfavorable outcomes than those with favorable outcomes 132.0  54.0 mg vs. 79.7  66.6 mg p < 0.0001. The pretreatment ocular-QMG scores were significantly higher in the patients with unfavorable outcomes compared to those with favorable outcomes 4.5  1.7 vs. 3.4  1.7 points p  0.006. We conducted logistic analyses to identify the clinical factors associated with the unfavorable outcome. We examined the association between the unfavorable outcome and the clinical factors of gender age observational period ocular symptoms disease subtype seropositivity of anti-AChR antibodies and treatment profiles. The multivariate logistic regression analyses revealed that the pretreatment ocular-QMG score was the only factor associated with the unfavorable outcome odds ratio  1.382 95% confidence interval 1.0841.761 p  0.009. Lastly we evaluated the self-perceived QOL of patients with purely ocular myasthenia by the MG-QOL15-J. Forty-seven patients with an unfavorable outcome showedsignificantly higher scores on the total MG-QOL15-J more severely impaired QOL compared to the 87 patients with the favorable outcome 15.7  12.7 vs. 5.7  8.5 points p < 0.0001.
Patients with the unfavorable outcome scored themselves as severe for 11 of 15 items of the QOL survey more than those with the favorable outcome. Although we also examined the association between the QOL and theclinical factors of ocular myasthenia and treatment profiles using the multivariate logistic analyses we could not find the significant factor associated the self-perceived QOL. Discussion. The present multicenter cross-sectional survey in Japan was comprised of the treatment profiles and therapeutic outcomes of 123 patients with purely ocular myasthenia. To investigate the clinical features of purely ocular myasthenia we enrolled MG patients with durations of symptoms 2 years. The main results can be summarized as follows i the frequency of purely ocular myasthenia was 20% in all MG patients ii treatment improved the ocular symptoms with the mean reduction in ocular-QMG score of 2.3  1.8 points iii 38% of thepatients failed to gain MM or a better status iv the unfavorable outcome was also demonstrated by severe QOL impairment and v the multivariate analyses showed that the pretreatment ocular-QMG score was associated with unfavorable outcomes but not associated with p. atients QOL. The present study has two limitations.
Second we obtained no data regarding the association between drug therapy and generalization from ocular myasthenia. An evidence-based review made no conclusion regarding whether it was appropriate to initiate therapy with AChE inhibitors or with corticosteroids for patients with ocular myasthenia 12. However the EFNS/ENS guidelines recommend that the treatment of ocular myasthenia should initially be started with pyridostigmine 13. We agree with the principal concept of the EFNS/ENS guidelines recommendation and initially treated by AChE inhibitors in most patients with ocular myasthenia. However we should recognize that AChE inhibitors alone usually will not solve the ocular myasthenia. We emphasize that the indication for immunosuppressive treatment should be carefully considered based on the severity of ocular symptoms in order to improve the patients QOL. The ocular symptoms can impair an individuals vision enough to interfere with work and daily life but the QOL of patients with purely ocular myasthenia had not been elucidated prior to the present study. The MG-QOL15-J useful for identifying satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the manifestations of MG among patients receiving treatment can capture various aspects of QOL impairment 17.
The MG-QOL15-J demonstrated a marked gap a total of 10 points between the favorable and unfavorable outcomes. It is likely that the difference may be much greater than physicians global impressions. Apart from the generalization from ocular myasthenia we must consider the therapeutic strategy for purely ocular myasthenia patients with the unfavorable outcome. The treatment should minimize ocular symptoms with minimal side effects and must be tailored to the individual based on his or her particular ocular symptoms 121318. In patients with severe opthalmoplegia therapy with AChE inhibitors alone may result in irreversible eye movement. We think that immunotherapy can be started when an ocular myasthenia patient has a high ocular-QMG score. In fact 42% of our patients received PSL with the maximum dose of 20.4 mg/day. Since corticosteroid treatment did not result in the satisfactory control of ocular symptoms we used steroid-sparing treatment with tacrolimus or cyclosporine in 28% of all patients.In regard to the other treatments IVIg and plasmapheresis were performed in some patients. However we also think that these treatments are not indicated for purely ocular myasthenia 13. In contrast we consider that mPSL is a potentially effective treatment for ocular myasthenia.
In fact our present findings revealed that mPSL was administered in 19% of all of the patients with purely ocular myasthenia and 91% of them experienced effective responses. Thus we think mPSL is the good choice of patients with the unfavorable condition and effective for improving the patients QOL. Extended thymectomy was performed in 17 nonthymomatous patients only when drug therapy had failed. Among the 14 patients with thymoma-associated ocular MG 11 had a favorable outcome. However there was no definite data regarding whether thymectomy was contributed to the favorable outcome. We believe that the treatment of sole ptosis may necessitate a particular approach. We found that the proportion of patients with ptosis alone during the entire course among all of the MG patients was 6% 36/ 607. It is likely that corticosteroids are less effective for ptosis than for generalized symptoms of MG 18. Ptosis can be corrected by the placement of crutches in the patients spectacles and ptosis tape elevates the eyelid droop 18. We also use topical naphazoline for treating myasthenic ptosis. Naphazoline a primary 2-agonist selectively increases the tone of Muller muscles without mydriasis and successfully reduces myasthenic ptosis 20.
In cases of longstanding and irreversible ptosis surgery for ptosis may be considered 21. Conclusion. A treatment strategy designed in accord with a patients ocular presentation must be considered to improve the ocular symptoms and the patients QOL.Competing interests The authors declare that they have no conflict of interests.Authors contributions SS had full access to all of the data in the study and takes responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis. HM and TI participated in the design and performed the statistical analyses. YN participated the management of the multicenter cross-sectional survey. MMa ET SK SO SN and MMo contributed in acquisition of data. NS and KU contributed in obtaining funding critical revision of the manuscript and study supervision. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.Acknowledgments This work was supported by a grant from the Japanese Ministry of Education Science Sports and Culture no. 23591255 and a Neuroimmunological Disease Research Committee grant from the Japanese Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare.Author details 1Department of Neurology Keio University School of Medicine 35 Shinanomachi Shinjuku-ku Tokyo 160-8582 Japan. 2Department of Neurology Iizuka Hospital Fukuoka Japan.
4Department of Neurology Hanamaki General Hospital Iwate Japan. 5Department of Neurology Tokyo Medical University Tokyo Japan. 6Department of Neurology Toho University Ohashi Medical Center Tokyo Japan. 7Department of Neurology Saitama Medical Center Saitama Medical University Saitama Japan. 8Department of Neurology Nagasaki Kawatana Medical Center Nagasaki Japan. 9Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Neurology Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Nagasaki University Nagasaki Japan.Received 14 April 2014 Accepted 1 July 2014 Published 5 July 2014References 1. Meriggioli MN Sanders DB Autoimmune myasthenia gravis emergingclinical and biological heterogeneity. Lancet Neurol 2009 8475490. 2 end. Evoli A Batocchi AP Minisci C Di Schino C Tonali P Therapeutic optionsin ocular myasthenia gravis. Neuromuscul Disord 2001 11208216. 3 end. Kaminski HJ Li Z Richmonds C Lin F Medof ME Complement regulatorsin extraocular muscle and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Exp Neurol 2004 189333342.4. Grob D Brunner N Namba T Pagala M Lifetime course of myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2008 37141149. 5 end. Bever CT Jr Aquino AV Penn AS Lovelace RE Rowland LP Prognosis of ocular myasthenia. Ann Neurol 1983 14516519. 6 end.
J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1997 62156162. 7 end. Kupersmith MJ Latkany R Homel P Development of generalized disease at 2 years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 2003 60243248. 8 end. Mee J Paine M Byrne E King J Reardon K ODay J Immunotherapy of ocular myasthenia gravis reduces conversion to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neuroophthalmol 2003 23251255. 9 end. Monsul NT Patwa HS Knorr AM Lesser RL Goldstein JM The effect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci 2004 217131133. 10 end. Allen JA Scala S Jones HR Ocular myasthenia gravis in a senior population diagnosis therapy and prognosis. Muscle Nerve 2010 41379384. 11 end. Zach H Cetin H Hilger E Paul A Wuschitz B Jung R Auff E Zimprich F The effect of early prednisolone treatment on the generalization rate in ocular myasthenia gravis. Eur J Neurol 2013 20708713. 12 end. Benatar M Kaminski H Medical and surgical treatment for ocular myasthenia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2006 2CD005081. 13 end. Kerty E Elsais A Argov Z Evoli A Gilhus NE EFNS/ENS Guidelines for the treatment of ocular myasthenia. Eur J Neurol. doi 10.1111/ene.12359. 14 end.
Task Force of the Medical Scientific Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. Neurology 2000 551623.15. Bhanushali MJ Wuu J Benatar M Treatment of ocular symptoms in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2008 7113351341. 16 end. Suzuki S Utsugisawa K Nagane Y Satoh T Kuwana M Suzuki N Clinical and immunological differences between early and late-onset myasthenia gravis in Japan. J Neuroimmunol 2011 230148152. 17 end. Masuda M Utsugisawa K Suzuki S Nagane Y Kabasawa C Suzuki Y Shimizu Y Utsumi H Fujihara K Uchiyama S Suzuki N The MG-QOL15 Japanese version validation and associations with clinical factors. Muscle Nerve 2012 46166173. 18 end. Kaminski HJ Daroff RB Treatment of ocular myasthenia steroids only when compelled. Arch Neurol 2000 57752753. 19 end. Komiyama A Arai H Kijima M Hirayama K Extraocular muscle responses to high dose intravenous methylprednisolone in myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2000 68214217. 20 end. Nagane Y Utsugisawa K Suzuki S Masuda M Shimizu Y Utsumi H Uchiyama S Suzuki N Topical naphazoline in the treatment of myasthenic blepharoptosis. Muscle Nerve 2011 444144. 21 end.
Eur Neurol 2014 71259261.doi10.1186/1471-2377-14-142 Cite this article as Suzuki et al. Quality of life in purely ocular myasthenia in Japan. BMC Neurology 2014 14142.Submit your next manuscript to BioMed Central and take full advantage of Convenient online submission Thorough peer review No space constraints or color figure charges Immediate publication on acceptance Inclusion in PubMed CAS Scopus and Google Scholar Research which is freely available for redistributionSubmit your manuscript at www.biomedcentral.com/submit. Myasthenia gravis can cause camptocormia. REFERENCES 1. Haber P Sejvar J Mikaeloff Y et al. Vaccines and GuillaineBarr syndrome. Drug Saf 200932309e23. 2 end. Yuki N Kuwabara S. Axonal GuillaineBarr syndrome carbohydrate mimicry and pathophysiology. J Peripher Nerv Syst 200712238e49. 3 end. Nachamkin I Shadomy SV Moran AP et al. Antiganglioside antibody induction by swine A/NJ/1976/ H1N1 and other influenza vaccines insights into vaccine-associated GuillaineBarr syndrome. J Infect Dis 2008198226e33. 4 end. Hemachudha T Griffin DE Giffels JJ et al. Myelin basic protein as an encephalitogen in encephalomyelitis and polyneuritis following rabies vaccination. N Engl J Med 1987316369e74. 5 end. Laouini D Kennou MF Khoufi S et al.
J Neuroimmunol 19989163e72. Ethics approval National University of Singapore.Contributors HS data collection and figure generation. FMH literature search and data collection. NY study design. NY literature search study design data interpretation figure generation and manuscript composition.Provenance and peer review Not commissioned externally peer reviewed.Received 2 August 2011 Revised 21 August 2011 Accepted 24 August 2011 Published Online First 23 September 2011J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 201283467e469. doi10.1136/jnnp-2011-301102. INTRODUCTION. Camptocormia is characterised by an abnormal posture of the trunk with marked flexion of the thoracolumbar spine. The spinal curvature resolves when the affected individual lies in the supine position. Camptocormia can be associated with metabolic spinal neuromuscular psychiatric neurogenic and movement disorders.1 We describe an unusual patient with myasthenia gravis MGwho had camptocormia that responded to edrophonium. CASE REPORT. In February 2009 a 75-year-old woman with a history of hypertension and angina noticed lower extremity weakness numbness below the trunk and forward flexion of the lumbar spine. In April she underwent surgery to treat ossified thoracic yellow ligaments and the numbness resolved.
In October she presented with dropped head. The severity of forward flexion of the lumbar spine and dropped head increased in parallel to general weakness when she continued to walk. Assistance in daily living was eventuallyspine on natural standing C. When the patient tried to avert her back with maximal effort she could not straighten her back even slightly D. After treatment with oral prednisolone flexion of the thoracolumbar spine markedly decreased on natural standing E. With maximal effort the patient could avert her back more than before treatment F. Informed consent has been obtained from the patient to publish the photographs.J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry April 2012 Vol 83 No 4 469required. In April 2010 ptosis developed and in August she noticed respiratory difficulty during routine activities leading to admission to our hospital. Bilateral ptosis restricted upward eye movements and muscle weakness in all four limbs and the neck were evident. She demonstrated abnormal posture of the trunk with marked flexion of the thoracolumbar spine and dropped head on natural standing figure 1AC. She could not straighten her back with maximal effort figure 1D and she had to raise her chin with her hand to look forwards.
Mildly increased deep tendon reflexes with no pathological reflex and mild sensory impairment in the lower limbs were also evident which seemed to cause preoperative spinal disorder. The quantitative MG score2 was 26. The levels of serum creatine kinase 54 U/l pyruvic acid 0.6 mg/dl and lactate dehydrogenase 6.8 IU/l were not abnormally elevated. The antiacetylcholine binding receptor antibody titre was 150 nmol/l normal upper limit >0.2 nmol/l. After injecting edrophonium the abnormal postures resolved and the severities of ptosis oculomotor disorder and general weakness decreased figure 1AB. Repeated stimulation studies demonstrated a decremental response at a slow stimulation rate in the orbicular muscle of the eye and the abductor digiti minimi. A CT scan of the chest showed evidence suggesting a mediastinal thymoma. Oxygen and carbon dioxide pressures on arterial blood gas analysis were 74.1 and 45.2 mm Hg respectively. Electromyography of the paraspinal muscles at the levels of C7 T4 Th8 and Th12 and the sternocleidomastoideus showed no evidence of myopathic motor unit action potentials. Other muscles biceps triceps adductor of thumb quadriceps gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior were also apparently not affected.
Oral prednisolone was gradually increased to 25 mg/day and the severity of disease decreased. In February 2011 the quantitative MG score and antiacetylcholine binding receptor antibody titre had decreased to 18 and 34 respectively. The patient could walk unaided and did not require oxygen. The abnormal postures markedly improved figure 1E and the patient could avert her back with maximal effort figure 1F. An abnormal posture no longer occurred while walking. She received a thymectomy in April and a diagnosis of thymoma was confirmed histologically. DISCUSSION. Camptocormia in our patient responded to intravenous edrophonium accompanied by a decrease in the severity of MG. Steroid treatment resolved the camptocormia aswell as ptosis motor weakness and respiratory dysfunction collectively suggesting that the camptocormia was directly attributed to MG. MG has been associated with paraspinal muscle weakness especially dropped head.3 As for camptocormia a previous patient with MG and mitochondrial disease was unable to bend the back 208 from the natural position and had severe degeneration in the lateral paraspinal muscles4 but a distinct association of MG with paraspinal muscle degeneration was not reported.
This is the first report of an association between MG and camptocormia. Clinicians should be aware that camptocormia is a potentially treatable condition in patients with MG. In patients presenting with camptocormia it is important to look for clinical and laboratory evidence of muscle involvement other than that in the spine as such findings may facilitate a correct diagnosis. Hiroshi Kataoka Takao Kiriyama Satoshi Ueno. Department of Neurology Nara Medical University Kashihara Nara JapanCorrespondence to Dr Kataoka Department of Neurology Nara Medical University 840 Shijo-cho Kashihara Nara 634-8522 Japan hk55naramed-u.ac.jpCompeting interests None.Patient consent Obtained.Contributors HK was responsible for the overall study design and wrote the manuscript. HK and TK contributed to the analysis and interpretation of data. HK and SU contributed to drafting and critical revision of a part of the submitted materials.Provenance and peer review Not commissioned externally peer reviewed.Received 15 April 2011 Revised 31 August 2011 Accepted 2 September 2011 Published Online First 20 September 2011J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 201283469e470. doi10.1136/jnnp-2011-300311. Sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis.
The authors suggest that more evidence is required to examine the use of sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis. We would like to report our experience with two patients with mild generalised muscle weakness class IIa in myasthenia gravis severity classification system by Osserman and Jenkins 2 and on chronic cholinesterase inhibitor medication in which we reversed an intense rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block with sugammadex. Both patients were scheduled for short procedures and subsequently gave consent for publication. After inducing neuromuscular block with rocuronium 0.15 mg.kg which is 25% of the standard dose required for tracheal intubation in normal patients both patients developed an intense neuromuscular block 3. At the end of the surgical procedure monitoring of the neuromuscular function TOF-Watch SX MSD  Shering-Plough Ireland Ltd Dublin Ireland showed no response of the train-of-four and a post-tetanic count was 0. We then reversed the block with 4.0 mg.kg sugammadex. The time from the administration of sugammadex to 90% recovery of the train-of-four ratio was 162 s for the first patient and 135 s for the second. No adverse changes were observed in arterial blood pressure heart rate or ECG after the administration of sugammadex.
Although there is controversy whether cholinesterase inhibitor medication should be continued until the time of the operation if patients are reliant on their cholinesterase inhibitor medication it should probably be continued peri-operatively 4. As sugammadex does not interfere with cholinergic homeostatic regulation continuation of cholinesterase inhibitors pre-operatively does not affect the efficacy of the reversal of neuromuscular block by sugammadex and therefore optimal muscle function is preserved. Reversal of a rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block by sugammadex will eliminate the risk of residual neuromuscular blockade in these patients with their highly increased sensitivity to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs. The combination of rocuronium and sugammadex may avoid the requirement for suxamethonium. Moreover the use of sugammadex prevents the need for postoperative mechanical ventilation often the consequence of using non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs. Reversal of rocuronium-induced intense neuromuscular block by sugammadex in our two patients with myasthenia gravis was rapid efficient and without signs of postoperative residual neuromuscular block.
These additional cases contribute additional evidence that the combination of rocuronium and sugammadex for neuromuscular block and its reversal is safe and beneficial in myasthenia gravis. breaching the dura before the stylet removal.Our case highlights an unusual cause of presumed accidental dural puncture. The loss of resistance technique failed because a fat plug occluded the Tuohy needle. This problem may have been avoided by reinsertion of the stylet in the ligamentum flavum to check the patency of the lumen.B. Pearce A end. Holtham University Hospital North Durham UK E-mail brettpearcedoctors.org.ukNo external funding and no competing interests declared. Published with the patients written consent.References 1 Gleeson CM Reynolds F. Accidentaldural puncture rates in UK obstetric practice. International Journal of Obstetric Anesthesia 1998 7 2426.2 Cohen S Sakr A Groysman RBhavsar V Amar D.
The authors suggest that more evidence is required to examine the use of sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis.We would like to report our experience with two patients with mild generalised muscle weakness class IIa in myasthenia gravis severity classification system by Osserman and Jenkins 2 and on chronic cholinesterase inhibitor medication in which we reversed an intense rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block with sugammadex. Both patients were scheduled for short procedures and subsequently gave consent for publication.After inducing neuromuscular block with rocuronium 0.15 mg.kg1 which is 25% of the standard dose required for tracheal intubation in normal patients both patients developed an intense neuromuscular block 3. At the end of the surgical procedure monitoring of the neuromuscular function TOF-Watch SX MSD  Shering-Plough Ireland Ltd Dublin Ireland showed no response of the train-of-four and a post-tetanic count was 0. We then reversed the block with 4.0 mg.kg1 sugammadex. The time from the administration of sugammadex to 90% recovery of the train-of-four ratio was 162 s for the first patient and 135 s for the second. No adverse changes were observed in arterial blood pressure heart rate or ECG after the administration of sugammadex.
As sugammadex does not interfere with cholinergic homeostatic regulation continuation of cholinesterase inhibitors pre-operatively does not affect the efficacy of the reversal of neuromuscular block by sugammadex and therefore optimal muscle function is preserved.Reversal of a rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block by sugammadex will eliminate the risk of residual neuromuscular blockade in these patients with their highly increased sensitivity to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs. The combination of rocuronium and sugammadex may avoid the requirement for suxamethonium. Moreover the use of sugammadex prevents the need for postoperative mechanical ventilation often the consequence of using non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs.Reversal of rocuronium-induced intense neuromuscular block by sugammadex in our two patients withmyasthenia gravis was rapid efficient and without signs of postoperative residual neuromuscular block. We emphasise that in these two patients reversal of the neuromuscular block was initiated at a level of intense neuromuscular block in contrast to the case described by Unterbuchner and colleagues.
H end. D end. de Boer end. end. J end. van Egmond. end. J end. J end. Driessen end. end. L end. H end. J end. D end. Booij end. Martini General Hospital Groningen Netherlands Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre Nijmegen Netherlands E-mail HD.de.Boermzh.nlH.D. de Boer has received a lecture fee from MSD  Schering-Plough and L.H.D.J Booij was a member of the scientific advisory board of Organon part of Schering-Plough. 60 mmHg end. There was marked upper abdominal tenderness with guarding. The spleen could not be palpated although there was dullness to percussion in the left hypochrondrium. He had no shoulder tip pain and the bowel sounds were present and normal. Initial investigation revealed a haemoglobin of 12.1 g/dl elevated white cell count at 14.3 x 109/l 62% atypical mononuclear cells platelets 208 x 109/1 positive Paul Bunnel test 1/640 titre positive Epstein Barr virus IgM test and abnormal liver function tests. Chest and abdominal X-rays were normal. Two days after admission he remained clinically stable although his haemoglobin had fallen to 9.6 g/dl with 42% reticulocytes negative Coombs and anti-i antibodies and a normal serum haptoglobin level. An abdominal ultrasound showed hepatosplenomegaly with a small transonic shadow anterior to the spleen.
A diagnosis of spontaneous subcapsular splenic haematoma complicating infectious mononucleosis was made. He was managed conservatively under combined medical and surgical supervision. Mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis the unanswered question. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease that leads to muscular weakness which can significantly affect the patients daily functions. If left untreated the mortality rate can be as high as 30%. Effective immunosuppression is the cornerstone of treatment of MG although most currently available immunomodulatory drugs are associated with unacceptable side effects delayed onset of therapeutic action or both. Mycophenolate mofetil MMF might be better tolerated than other immunosuppressants and many case reports and uncontrolled trials have indicated that it is effective in MG. However two recently concluded clinical trials failed to demonstrate the efficacy of MMF in MG. This paper critically reviews the existing evidence on the efficacy of MMF in MG and provides the authors view of its role in current practice.
If left untreated the mortality rate can be as high as 30%. Effective immunosuppression is the cornerstone of treatment of MG although most currently available immunomodulatory drugs are associated with unacceptable side effects delayed onset of therapeutic action or both. Mycophenolate mofetil MMF might be better tolerated than other immunosuppressants and many case reports and uncontrolled trials have indicated that it is effective in MG. However two recently concluded clinical trials failed to demonstrate the efficacy of MMF in MG. This paper critically reviews the existing evidence on the efficacy of MMF in MG and provides the authors view of its role in current practice.Keywords CellCept  myasthenia gravis  mycophenolate mofetil  progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathyExpert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 9142545-25511. IntroductionMyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune condition in which antibodies against the postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors AChR or related structures result in failure of neuromuscular transmission. It has an estimated prevalence of 5  15 per 100000 1 and a bimodal distribution primarily affecting young females between 15 and 30 years of age and older males between 60 and 75 years of age 2 .
Therapy for MG includes symptomatic treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors thymectomy for selected patients immunomodulation with intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg plasma exchange and oral immunosuppressants. Commonly used immunosuppressants include corticosteroids azathioprine ciclosporin and  more recently  mycophenolate mofetil MMF. Prior to the use of immunosuppression and advances in neurocritical care the mortality from MG could be as high as 30% 3 .2. BackgroundAlthough several observational studies and uncontrolled trials have shown efficacy of oral immunosuppressants in MG data from randomized controlled trials are lacking 4 . Currently there are no universally accepted treatment guidelines for immunosuppression in MG and management decisions are based on individual expertise patient responsiveness and the side effects of the agent. Among the oral immune-modifying agents currently in use for MG corticosteroids are by and large considered to be most effective although this has not been demonstrated by large randomized controlled prospective studies. Up to 80% of patients with MG are reported to achieve remission when treated with long-term prednisone 5 .1. Introduction2. Background3. Pharmacodynamicspharmacokinetics andmetabolism of mycophenolate4.
Conclusion6. Expert opinionE xper t Opi n.P harm acot her. Dow nloa ded from info rmah ealth care .com by Tuf tsU nive rsity on 11/0 5/ 14 Fo r pe rs on al u se o nl y.2546 Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 914However when steroids are tapered to reduce the adverse affects associated with their chronic usage patients often require another immunomodulatory agent to maintain remission. A prospective randomized double-blind trial assessing the steroid-sparing effect of azathioprine showed a lower cumulative exposure to prednisolone over 3 years 6 . However the beneficial steroid-sparing effect was not apparent until the second year of treatment and the maximum benefit was not seen until 18 months after beginning azathioprine. Another immunosuppressant  ciclosporin a calcineurin inhibitor  has been evaluated in MG by a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled trial 7 . Twenty patients with recent-onset suboptimally controlled MG were randomized to ciclosporin versus placebo for 12 months. At 6 and 12 months the ciclosporin group demonstrated significantly greater objective improvement in strength and reduction in AChR antibody titers.
However clinical experience in MG indicates that most non-steroidal immunosuppressants can take up to several months to become effective and can produce serious adverse affects when used chronically 8 .Mycophenolate mofetil CellCept an antimetabolite agent has been widely used as an antirejection drug in solid organ transplantation since the early 1990s. It has subsequently been reported to be safe and beneficial in inflammatory conditions including systemic lupus erythematosus psoriasis MG inflammatory myopathies and some neuropathies 9 . 3 end. Pharmacodynamics pharmacokinetics and metabolism of mycophenolate. Two mycophenolate compounds are available mycophenolate mofetil MMF and enteric-coated mycophenolate sodium. MMF is the ester prodrug of its active metabolite mycophenolic acid MPA and inhibits inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase particularly the type II isoform of this enzyme which is found in proliferating B and T lymphocytes. This enzyme mediates the conversion of inosine monophosphate to guanosine monophosphate a critical step in the de novo purine synthesis pathway of guanosine nucleotides 10 . MPA targets proliferating lymphocytes that do not have access to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoglybosyl transferase salvage pathway for purine synthesis.
Several other sites of action of MMF in the inflammatory cascade also contribute to its immunosuppressant activity It inhibits glycosylation and expression of adhesion molecules thereby limiting the recruitment of inflammatory cells 9 . It also reduces nitric oxide production by activated macrophages which are involved in free-radical production and oxidativestress 10 . In a murine model of endotoxemia MMF inhibits TNF-   a pro-inflammatory cytokine and upregulates expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines 11 . It also augments apoptosis of human lymphoid and monocytic cell lines 12 .MMF is rapidly absorbed from the gut and metabolized to its active metabolite  MPA  in the liver intestinal wall and blood 13 . The peak serum concentration is reached within a few hours of a single oral dose with the majority of the active metabolite being protein bound. The oral bioavailability of MPA ranges from 80.7 to 94%. MPA is metabolized in the liver and kidneys to mycophenolic acid glucoronide MPAG which is excreted in the urine and bile. The inactive MPAG is then deconjugated in the intestinal tract to MPA and subsequently reabsorbed via the enterohepatic recirculation leading to a second peak blood concentration within 6  12 h. The mean half-life of MPA varies from 9 to 17 h.
Because of its extensive protein binding hypoalbuminemia alters the free fraction of available MPA. Although high doses of corticosteroids can induce conversion of MPA to inactive MPAG thus lowering exposure to MPA a study in healthy volunteers concluded that there was no clinically significant interaction between steroids and MMF 14 . Ciclosporin inhibits MPAG excretion and decreases the enterohepatic circulation of MPA  when the two drugs are taken together exposure to MPA is reduced by 30  40% compared to the combination of mycophenolate plus tacrolimus or sirolimus 13 . Excretion of mycophenolate by the kidneys probably warrants dose adjustment in patients with renal insufficiency. As per the US FDA the dose for adult kidney transplants is 2 g daily and that for adult heart and liver transplants is 3 g/day. The concomitant administration of MMF and azathioprine has not been studied clinically and the two drugs should not be administered concomitantly because both have the potential to cause bone marrow suppression. MMF is generally well tolerated in most studies.
PML is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system caused by reactivation of the latent JC virus in severely immune-compromised individuals. Symptoms of PML include dementia ataxia progressive weakness and changes in vision speech and  sometimes  personality. Short of a brain biopsy the diagnosis of PML is based on the progressive course of the disease typical white-matter lesions on brain MRI scan and detection of the JC virus in cerebrospinal fluid. Reversal of the immune-deficientE xper t Opi n.P harm acot her. Dow nloa ded from info rmah ealth care .com by Tuf tsU nive rsity on 11/0 5/ 14 Fo r pe rs on al u se o nl y.Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 914 2547state may stop or slow the progression of the disease but about 80% of patients with PML die within the first 6 months. Of the ten confirmed cases of PML in patients taking MMF six had had a solid organ transplant and four had systemic lupus erythematosus SLE. Of the seven suspected cases four had organ transplant two SLE and one had HIV. All patients in both groups had risk factors for PML including impaired immune function and were taking three to five immunosuppressive medications.
None of the ten confirmed cases was on MMF and steroids alone. Seven of the 17 patients who developed PML died and five improved the outcome of the other five was not known at the time of the warning. Based on this information the FDA has advised that only physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and the management of renal cardiac or hepatic transplant patients should use MMF and that patients who receive MMF should be managed in facilities equipped and staffed with adequate laboratory and supportive medical resources. Physicians responsible for maintenance therapy should have complete information requisite for the follow-up of the patient. 4 end. Mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis clinical effi cacy. A beneficial effect of MMF in MG was first reported in a 28-year-old female who had had severe and intractable MG for 14 years with frequent hospitalizations for acute exacerbations 15 . Improvement was observed within days of beginning MMF which led to discontinuation of pyridostigmine and reduction in prednisone dose. The improvement was sustained for at least 15 months and minimal side effects were observed during this period.Subsequently several other case reports reported effectiveness of MMF in MG 16-19 .
Based on data from organ-transplantation studies the MMF dose was 1 g twice a day in most studies in MG. Benefits included improvement in muscle strength with reduction in AChR antibody titers 17 and reduction or discontinuation of concomitant therapy 16-19 . Importantly some authors recorded clinical improvement as early as 3 weeks after MMF was begun 17 . Apart from dose-dependent hemolytic anemia in one patient 17  no serious side effects were reported in these studies.In an open-label pilot study of patients with refractory or steroid-dependent MG 8 of 12 patients 67% treated with MMF for 6 months showed improvement within the first 2 months of treatment 20 .In a retrospective review of 32 patients with MG MMF 1 g was given twice daily for 3  36 months mean 11 months as an adjunct or steroid sparing agent 29 patients or as sole therapy 3 patien. ts 21  end. Overall 69% showed either improvement in functional status 59% reduction in steroid dose 50% or both. The earliest clinical response was recorded at 2 months but the mean time to improvement was 4.8 months with some patients not showing any benefit until 12 months into the treatment. Interestingly patients with shorter disease duration mean 7.5 years versus 14 years showed a more favorable response to MMF.
Cost was cited to be a concern for several patients. The authors concluded that MMF had excellent tolerability and comparable efficacy to the previously used immunomodulatory agents for MG.Another retrospective analysis reported the experience from 85 patients with MG who received MMF 1  3 g/day 22 . Improvement was reported in 73% of the patients with significant reduction in mean manual muscle testing MMT and quantitative MG QMG scores and also in prednisone dose. Overall 71% of the patients were able either to discontinue or to reduce corticosteroids although patients with refractory disease appeared to have a less robust response. The earliest improvement was demonstrated objectively at 10.8 weeks range 4 to 40 weeks with maximum improvement at 26.7 weeks range 8  104 weeks. About 20% experienced one or more minor side effects but serious complications were infrequent autoimmune granulocytopenia. About 6% of the patients discontinued MMF because of intolerable gastrointestinal symptoms.A prospective double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study examined 14 patients with suboptimally controlled MG who were randomized to MMF at 1 g twice daily or placebo for 5 months 23 . Patients with purely ocular disease or severe respiratory or bulbar weakness were excluded.
Although patients taking MMF demonstrated some improvement in QMG and MMT scores only the improvement in jitter reached statistical significance. Three patients in the MMT group became seronegative and all showed improved jitter compared to only one patient in the placebo group. The medication was well tolerated with minimal side effects.Recently two multicenter prospective randomized doubleblind placebo-controlled trials evaluated the efficacy safety and tolerability of MMF as an adjunct to steroids  Table 1 . The first trial was conducted in 13 US centers and includedE xper t Opi n.P harm acot her. Dow nloa ded from info rmah ealth care .com by Tuf tsU nive rsity on 11/0 5/ 14 Fo r pe rs on al u se o nl y.2548 Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 91480 subjects with mild-to-moderate MG who had not previously received any immunosuppressive agents except corticosteroids 24 . Subjects were randomized either to placebo or MMF plus 20 mg/day of prednisone for a 12-week blinded phase which was followed by an optional openlabel 24-week phase. The primary end point was change in the QMG score at week 12 compared to baseline.
Treatment failure was defined as patients who deteriorated and required other immunosuppressive agents.Seventy subjects completed the blinded phase of the study. Both groups displayed improvement in QMG QMT MG ADL and SF-36 scores and there was no significantdifference between groups in the primary or secondary end points. During the open-label phase earlier treatment with MMF during the blinded phase did not show any greater steroid-sparing effect because the reduction of prednisone dosage was comparable in the two groups. Side effects diarrhea and abdominal cramping were higher but not statistically different in the MMF-treated group and there were no serious side effects. The investigators concluded that MMF does not impart any benefit over steroids alone in improving control or in reducing the steroid dose when used in the initial treatment of immunosuppressive naive MG patients.The second trial involved 43 international sites and evaluated 176 subjects who had had mild-to-moderately severe MG for  10 years and who had been taking steroids equivalent to  20 mg/day oral prednisone for at leastTable 1 .
Prior immunotherapy not allowedSeropositive patients with mild to moderate MG requiring at least  20 mg of prednisone. Prior immunotherapy allowed.Primary outcome measure Change in the QMG score at week 12 Composite measure MGFA PIS of MM or PR for weeks 32  36 plus  7.5 mg/day prednisone or equivalent for weeks 32  36 plus  120 mg/day pyridostigmine for weeks 33  36Prednisone dose schedule at entry and during trial20 mg/day  either placebo or MMF 2.5 g/day for 12 weeks then 24-week open-label phase during which prednisone tapered 20 mg/day  either placebo or MMF 2 g/day. Prednisone tapered to target dose of 7.5 mg/day when subject achieved MM or PRNo. of participating centers/subjects 8/80 43/176Mean age in years 56 50Gender M/F % 59/41 48/52Disease duration at entry 2 years 3 yearsDisease severity at enrolment MGFA class II  48% III  50% MGFA class II  8% III  42% IV  19%Initial mean QMG score 13 11Prior thymectomy Not known 25%Prior immunosuppression None VariablePrior steroid dose None within 90 days UnknownResults No difference in mean QMG score between the groupsNo difference in percentage of subjects achieving composite outcome measure .
ia gravis.E xper t Opi n.P harm acot her. Dow nloa ded from info rmah ealth care .com by Tuf tsU nive rsity on 11/0 5/ 14 Fo r pe rs on al u se o nl y.Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 914 25494 weeks 25 . Patients were randomized to receive either MMF 2 g/day or placebo for 36 weeks. Two weeks after randomization patients who had achieved minimal manifestations MM or pharmacologic remission PR as defined by the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America Postintervention Status MGFA PIS began to taper prednisone according to a fixed schedule to 7.5 mg/day this was maintained until the end of the study. Those unable to taper below their baseline dose by 16 weeks were considered to be non-responders and were withdrawn from the study.The primary end point was treatment response  a novel composite outcome that required meeting all of the following three efficacy criteria i PIS of MM or PR for weeks 32  36 ii taking  7.5 mg/day prednisone or the alternate-day equivalent for weeks 32  36 and iii taking  120 mg/day pyridostigmine for weeks 33  36.
No significant difference was noted between the two groups in any of the primary or secondary end points. The primary end point of treatment response was reached by 44% of patients in the MMF group and 39% in the placebo group p  0.541. The results were not influenced by gender age at onset duration of disease previous thymectomy or center effects. The most common reason for failure to reach the treatment response among patients in the MMF group was the inability to reduce the prednisone dose to  7.5 mg/day. MMF was well tolerated and no serious side effects were reported. This was the largest prospective trial in MG to date and as with the first trial showed no superior benefits of MMF plus prednisone over prednisone alone in the management of MG.For many physicians experienced in using MMF for MG the results of these two trials are difficult to reconcile with their clinical observations. However several factors in the design of these trials or in patient selection could have led to the negative results. For instance an unexpectedly robust response to prednisone even at relatively low doses could have masked the effect of MMF in both studies.
Finally the duration of both trials might have been too short to show the progressive responses to MMF that have been reported in previous studies to occur as late as 40 weeks after initiating MMF 19 . 5 end. Conclusion. Prior to the recent trials MMF was finding increasing off-label use in MG both as first-line therapy or as a steroid-sparing agent and for patients who did not tolerate or respond to other immunosuppressants. Case reports retrospective reviews and small or uncontrolled trials had indicated equivalent or superior efficacy to other nonsteroidal agents used for MG with fewer side effects and rapid onset of action. The high cost of MMF was prohibitive for many patients and limited its use. It was thus hoped that these controlled trials would provide evidence of efficacy that would lead to regulatory approval of MG as an indication for MMF. Although the results of these trials do not support earlier reports and the clinical experience of many physicians that MMF is an effective steroid-sparing immunosuppressant in MG many lessons were learned in the process and these will undoubtedly form the foundation for future clinical studies. 6 end. Expert opinion.
The variability of the disease coupled with the variability inherent in international studies might complicate and confound the assessment process. These factors plus the previously discussed concerns regarding the design of these trials call for caution when applying these results in clinical practice. Our own decisions about use of MMF in MG will not be determined by these results alone and we feel that more study is required before the full potential of MMF in MG is known. In the experience of one of the authors ZAS withdrawal of MMF in MG patients who were in remission or had stable disease and had taken MMF for > 1 year led to relapse of symptoms in most patients within 6 months. These results suggest that MMF may be effective in some but not all MG patients the characteristics of whom need to be further defined. However without rigorous evidence to support its efficacy MMF remains an experimental treatment. For now treating physicians should carefully assess and discuss the pros and cons of continuing or withdrawing MMF in their MG patients particular in those who have achieved sustained improvement while taking this drug.
Due to the rarity of the disease lowE xper t Opi n.P harm acot her. Dow nloa ded from info rmah ealth care .com by Tuf tsU nive rsity on 11/0 5/ 14 Fo r pe rs on al u se o nl y.2550 Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 914enrollment has plagued most MG clinical trails many of which had to be halted prematurely. Also MG trials are inherently difficult to design because of ethical concerns about withholding accepted therapy such as cholinesterase inhibitors and steroids however allowing these agents makes it difficult to assess the efficacy of other interventions. Future trials of MMF or other new treatments for MG must address the following. 1 end. Establish inclusion and exclusion criteria to reduce. selection bias  Factors such as age gender and serological status are not likely to affect results. However previous studies suggest that the more refractory MG patients 19 and those with longer disease duration 18 show less robust responses. Thus it will be important to select patients with a wide range of severity and disease duration to determine which characteristics predict the best response. 2 end.
Several steroid-related issues must thus be addressed. For example how long should subjects on MMF be stabilized before steroids are tapered What should be the tapering regimen and fi nal target dose 3. Duration of study  Future studies of MMF or other agents must be of suffi cient duration to assess delayed responses keeping in mind the costs associated with long studies. 4 end. Thymectomy  The course and severity of MG and  possibly  the response to immune therapy might be affected by prior thymectomy. Future studies in MGshould be designed to permit subgroup analysis to determine the effect of thymectomy. 5 end. Outcome measures  MG is a variable disease with no objective biomarker that correlates well with the severity of the disease. Future MG trials need a consistent sensitive objective and clinically meaningful primary outcome measure to assess the response to intervention. 6 end. Rethinking the MMF mechanism of action  MMF inhibits proliferation of T and B cells that have already responded to the antigen the AChR. There remain the memory B cells which do not replicate rapidly but continue to produce antibodies. This might explain the phenomenon of fi xed weakness in MG patients who fail to respond to immunotherapy.
7 end. Comparison with accepted immunosuppressants such as azathioprine  In head-to-head comparison trials for other autoimmune conditions MMF has shown similar or superior effi cacy and safety to azathioprine in reducing the cumulative corticosteroid dose and adverse effects 2627 . Azathioprine is one of the most common immunosuppressants used in MG and a long-term study comparing its effi cacy and safety with MMF would overcome some of the potential limitations of the previous trial designs.Declaration of interestThe authors state no conflict of interest and have received no payment in preparation of this manuscript. Double seronegative myasthenia gravis with low density lipoprotein-4 LRP4 antibodies presenting with isolated ocular symptoms. a Second Department of Neurology University of Athens School of Medicine Attikon University Hospital Athens Greece b International Clinical Research Center St. Annes University Hospital in Brno Czech Republic c First Department of Neurology University of Athens School of Medicine Eginition University Hospital Athens Greece d Hellenic Pasteur Institute Athens Greece e Tzartos NeuroDiagnostics Athens Greece.
Tzartos d Socrates J. Tzartos de Konstantinos I. Voumvourakis aa Second Department of Neurology University of Athens School of Medicine Attikon University Hospital Athens Greece b International Clinical Research Center St. Annes University Hospital in Brno Czech Republic c First Department of Neurology University of Athens School of Medicine Eginition University Hospital Athens Greece d Hellenic Pasteur Institute Athens Greece e Tzartos NeuroDiagnostics Athens Greece Corresponding author at Second Department of Ne School of Medicine Attikon University Hospital Ath Attikis Athens 15344 Greece. Tel. 30 6937178635 faxE-mail address tsivgoulisgiorgyahoo.gr G. Tsivgoulhttp//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2014.09.013 0022-510X/ 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f o. Article history. Received 13 August 2014 Received in revised form 4 September 2014 Accepted 10 September 2014 Available online 17 September 2014. Keywords end. Myasthenia Antibodies Ocular LRP4 Diagnosis TreatmentThe detection of low density lipoprotein-4 LRP4 antibodies in double seronegative dSN myasthenia gravis MG patients has provided new insights in the diagnosis and treatment of MG.
We present a case series of three Caucasian dSNMGpatients with positive LRP4-antibodies sharing a common ethnic background that presented with isolated ocular symptoms MGFA I. The demographic and clinical characteristics the diagnostic work-up as well as the treatment response during a follow-up period of 1224 months are described in detail. All patients were treated successfully with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors AcheI and prednisone with two exhibiting full remission of their symptoms while the remaining exhibited mild residual diplopia. Notably we documented no signs of generalized disease progression while no patient required immunosuppressive treatment. In conclusion the distinct clinical phenotype of our patients highlights the clinical relevance of screening for LRP4-antibodies in patients presenting with isolated ocular MG independent of age and gender since it may lead to the timely diagnosis of MG and prompt initiation of effective therapy with ACheI and corticosteroids. 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 1 end. Introduction. The detection of low density lipoprotein-4 LRP4 antibodies in double seronegative dSN myasthenia gravis MG patients has provided new insights in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease 16.
We present a case series of three Caucasian dSN MG patients with positive LRP4-antibodies sharing a common ethnic background that presented with isolated ocular symptoms and were treated successfully with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors AcheI and prednisone.urology University of Athens ens Greece Iras 39 Gerakas  30 2105832471. is. end. 2 end. Case series description. All patients presented at the Neuromuscular Outpatient Clinic of our Department for evaluation of lid ptosis and diplopia. Demographic and clinical characteristics are presented in Table 1. MG severity was evaluated using Myasthenia Gravis Association of America MGFA clinical classification system 7. Detection of LRP4 antibodies was performed using a cell-based assay as previously described 689. More specifically Human Embryonic Kidney 293 cells were transfected with the full length human LRP4 fused with green fluorescence protein 48 h after transfection the cells were fixed with ice cold methanol and incubated without further permeabilization with several dilutions of the patients serum. Antibody binding was visualized with Alexa Fluor 568 labeled anti human IgG antibodies Life Technologies USA as secondary antibody. Diagnostic work-up and treatment response are presented in Table 2.
Neurological examination revealed diplopia and right lid-ptosis. Study funding. end. Authorship contribution statement. end. Conflict of interest. Dr Tsivgoulis reports no disclosures. Dr Dervenoulas reports no disclosures. Dr Kokotis reports no disclosures. Dr J end. Tzartos reports no disclosures. Dr S end. Tzartos reports involvement with the diagnostic center TzartosNeurodiagnostics. Dr Voumvourakis reports no disclosures. Acknowledgments. None. end. A girl born in May 1977 started to have ptosis of the right eye at the age of 15 years. Clinical examination and tests confirmed ocular myasthenia gravis without thymoma and she was treated with anticholinesterase compounds. At the age of 3-5 years ptosis and diplopia worsened and prednisolone 20 mg was given on alternate days along with pyridostigmine bromide 90 mg/day and distigmine bromide 5 mg/day. The ocular symptoms were inversely correlated with the doses of prednisolone and she alternated between transient relief and aggravation of her symptoms. Treatment with anticholinesterase compounds was unsatisfactory. At the age of 5 years ptosis and diplopia worsened during reduction of prednisolone dose figure A.
Treatment with ambenonium bromide was unsatisfactory and administration of prednisolone 20 mg on alternate days was again started. At the age of 8-4 years she had a prolonged relapse and prednisolone dose was increased to 30. Treatment for refractory myasthenia gravis 1191Treatment for refractory myasthenia gravisT SAKANO T HAMASAKI Y KINOSHITA M KIHARA AND K UEDADepartment of Paediatrics Hiroshima University School of Medicine Hiroshima JapanSUMMARY An 8 year old girl with ocular myasthenia gravis was treated with high dose intravenous immunoglobulin and high dose intravenous methylprednisolone. Ocular symptoms recurred seven months after the start of the immunoglobulin. She has been in remission for more than 12 months after two courses of intravenous methylprednisolone and administration of oral prednisolone was discontinued.Recently high dose intravenous immunoglobulin and high dose intravenous methylprednisolone have been reported to improve the symptoms of generalised myasthenia gravis.
Clinical examination and tests confirmed ocular myasthenia gravis without thymoma and she was treated with anticholinesterase compounds. At the age of 3-5 years ptosis and diplopia worsened and prednisolone 20 mg was given on alternate days along with pyridostigmine bromide 90 mg/day and distigmine bromide 5 mg/day. The ocular symptoms were inversely correlated with the doses of prednisolone and she alternated between transient relief and aggravation of her symptoms. Treatment with anticholinesterase compounds was unsatisfactory. At the age of 5 years ptosis and diplopia worsened during reduction of prednisolone dose figure A. The dose of ambenonium chloride was gradually increased and administration of pyridostigmine bromide and distigmine bromide was discontinued. Treatment with ambenonium bromide was unsatisfactory and administration of prednisolone 20 mg on alternate days was again started. At the age of 8-4 years she had a prolonged relapse and prednisolone dose was increased to 30 mg on alternate days without improvement of symptoms. Oral prednisolone 55 mg 2 mg/kg wasgiven on alternate days for four months but paralysis of the extraocular muscles and ptosis of the both eyes did not improve.
The daily dose of anticholinesterase compounds and prednisolone was kept constant before and during initial immunoglobulin treatment. Improvement of the ocular symptoms began on day 4 after the start of immunoglobulin treatment and all the symptoms disappeared within 14 days. The treatment was followed by a booster infusion given every two weeks plus oral administration of prednisolone and pyridostigmine. The dose of oral prednisolone was gradually reduced to 10 mg on alternate days. However ocular symptoms recurred seven months after the start of treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin. The booster infusion of intravenous immunoglobulin was repeated five times every two or three days. An improvement of the symptoms was not remarkable and intravenous immunoglobulin treatment was discontinued in February 1987. Doses of prednisolone and pyridostigmine were increased but ocular symptoms did not improve.In July 1987 she was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone because she had been treated with oral prednisolone for a long period and oral prednisolone 55 mg on alternate days did not lead to a satisfactory improvement. The improvement of the ocular symptoms was not remarkable after the initial intravenous methylprednisolone and a second course was administered.
During her remission the daily dose of anticholinesterase medication was gradually increased and the dose of oral prednisolone was reduced. In January 1988 paralysis of downward movement of the right eye was noted but the symptom was minimal and rapidly subsided with increasing the dose of pyridostigmine. This may indicate that the patient became responsive to pyridostigmine after treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone. In June 1988 administration of oral prednisolone was discontinued. In October 1988 she was in remission and she is now receiving pyridostigmine 130 mg/day. The antiacetylcholine receptor antibodies have occasionally increased but this increase has not been correlated with the clinical symptoms.1192 Archives of Disease in Childhood 1989 641982 1983 lFeb 1Mar jApr May IJune Jty Aug ISept Oct Nov Dec iJan Feb Mar Apr Dstigmin 5 mg --Ambeonium 5 mgPyridostigmine 90 mg Predisolone 10 mg 20 noab 1 2 3 2 1 1 3 2 11 negative 1983 1985 1986 IMay iJune iJuly AugiJune iJuly Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan IFeb IMar AprAmbbovnium 15 mg / lS mg 20mg 15mgPyridostigmine.
y of clinical course before A and after B administration of intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg and intravenous methylprednisolone IVMP. Polyethylene glycol treated intact 7S-immunoglobulin Takeda 10 g 300 mglkg was given as a single doseforfive consecutive days and the booster infusion was repeated every two weeks. Intravenous methylprednisolone 750 mg 20 mglkg was given as a single dosefor three consecutive days. a Oralprednisolone was administered on alternate days b functional status 1 asymptomatic 2 minor symptoms apparent in the evening 3 mildly disabled symptoms readily apparent with restrictions ofmore demanding visual activity 4 severely restricted in the visual activity c intravenous immunoglobulin 7-5 gldose was given d intravenous immunoglobulin 5 gldose was given for prevention of rubella and e normal range ofantiacetylcholine receptor AchR antibody is below 0 5 nmolll.2.5 mg2c  0O7nmol/ 0.8 n. mrr/DiscussionWe have treated a patient with ocular myasthenia gravis with five day immunoglobulin treatment followed by boosters every two weeks plus high dose intravenous methylprednisolone.
Because she had no episode of spontaneous remission during her illness it was unlikely that the improvement of the symptoms by immunoglobulin and methylprednisolone was coincidental. The initial intravenous immunoglobulin treatment showed more rapid onset of clinical improvement compared with treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone. Ocular symptoms recurred seven months after the start of intravenous immunoglobulin however despite the booster infusions. Treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone followed by increasing the dose of pyridostigmine maintained her remission for more than 12 months and administration of prednisolone could be discontinued. Thus the efficacy of intravenous methylprednisolone seemed to be superior to that of intravenous immunoglobulin in our patient. Both immunoglobulin and methylprednisolone are rather radical treatments for ocular myasthenia. Our patient had been treated with a considerable dose of oral prednisolone for a long period.
Therefore intravenous immunoglobulin and intravenous methylprednisolone may be useful when patients are restricted in daily activities despite prolonged administration of corticosteroids and anticholinesterase compounds.In patients with generalised myasthenia gravis thymectomy has become increasingly recommended and this may be indicated in patients with refractory ocular myasthenia gravis. Patients with ocular myasthenia gravis do not usually require thymectomy however and there is no consensus that children with ocular myasthenia gravis refractory to corticosteroids and anticholinesterase medication should have a thymectomy.3References Arsura EL Brunner NG Namba T Grob D. High-dose intravenous methylprednisolone in myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 1985421149-53. 2 Arsura EL Bick A Brunner NG Namba T Grob D. Highdose intravenous immunoglobulin in the management of myasthenia gravis. Arch Intern Med 19861461365-8. 3 Olanow CW Wechsler AS Sirotkin-Roses M Stajich J Roses AD. Thymectomy as primary therapy in myasthenia gravis. Ann NY Acad Sci 1987505595-606.Correspondence to Dr T Sakano Department of Paediatrics Hiroshima University School of Medicine Kasumi 1-2-3 Minamiku Hiroshima 734 Japan.Accepted 29 November 1988myasthenia gravis.
thearticle. Sign up in the box at the top right corner ofReceive free email alerts when new articles cite thisNoteshttp//group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions To request permissions go tohttp//journals.bmj.com/cgi/reprintform To order reprints go tohttp//group.bmj.com/subscribe/ To subscribe to BMJ go to. Plasmapheresis in Severe Forms of Myasthenia Gravis. In this study we introduce a new combination treatment of plasma exchange PE and high daily doses of prednisone for severe forms of myasthenia gravis MG. The clinical efficacy of the combined therapy has been tested in 18 patients suffering from severe forms of MG. The protocol included 5 sessions of PE performed in a range of 15 days 1 session every 3 days with concurrent administration of oral prednisone 1 mg/kg of body weight starting at the first session of PE and given daily for at least 3 months. At the end of the entire cycle of PE almost complete recovery more than 90% of the initial clinical score was obtained in 8 of 18 patients while an improvement between 60 and 90% of the initial score was achieved in 9 of 18 patients. An early improvement was noted 24 h after the beginning of plasmapheresis in 11 of 18 patients. No recurrence of symptoms was reported after 36 months of follow-up for 17 patients.
According to our results we can conclude that high doses of oral prednisone therapy in simultaneous association with PE lead to successful control of severe forms of MG significantly superior to the therapeutic strategies until now adopted and reported in literature. noted 24 h after the beginning of plasmapheresis in 11 of 18 patients. No recurrence of symptoms was reported after 36 months of follow-up for 17 patients. The administration of steroid therapy was never followed by an early exacerbation of myasthenic symptoms as reported when it is administered in the absence of concomitant PE. According to our results we can conclude that high doses of oral prednisone therapy in simultaneous association with PE lead to successful control of severe forms of MG significantly superior to the therapeutic strategies until now adopted and reported in literature. Key Words Myasthenia gravisPlasma exchangeSteroids in myastheniaMyasthenic crisisSteroids and plasmapheresis.Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease primarily affecting women in their second and third decades due to altered neuromuscular transmission involving acetylcholine receptors 1. The cardinal symptoms are weakness and fatigability of skeletal muscles. Generalized weakness develops in approximately 85% of patients 2.
The severe forms of this disease are classified according to Ossermans classification as 2b and 3 grade 3 and their complications include myasthenic crisis and/or acute oropharyngeal dysfunction. Therapy with pyridostigmine and prednisone produces a marked improvement or remission in approximately 7080% of MG patients 4. In the management of this disease plasma exchange PE has been increasingly accepted in the last 20 years as a successful procedure for critically ill myasthenic pa-tients 56. The combination of PE and immunosuppressive drugs has been reported with a wide variety of dosages 7 but conclusive protocols still remain to be defined particularly regarding the time intervals between PE and the start of steroid therapy 4. In this study we introduced a new treatment for severe forms of MG combining PE and high daily doses of prednisone and showed the improved clinical efficacy of the combined therapy in patients suffering from severe forms of MG. PATIENTS AND METHODS. Myasthenic patients 8 male and 10 female mean age 41  27 range 1670 years came under our observation during acute myasthenic crises or suffering from acute oropharyngeal dysfunction. Details relating to the patients enrolled in the study are reported in Table 1.
Thymectomies had been performed in 11 patients in 4 of them a thymoma was detected. After hospitalization Received March 1997 revised September 1997. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Massimo Morosetti Clinica Chirurgica-Ospedale S. Eugenio Piazzale dellUmanesimo 10 00144 Roma Italy.129mechanical ventilatory support had been necessary for 6 patients.Clinical evaluation was based on a score system providing a scale for muscular strength and resistance listed in Tables 2 and 3 modified fromMantegazza et al. 8 end. The score was calculated as the addition of each parameter from both Tables 2 and 3.We started with the following protocol 5 sessions of plasma exchange performed in a range of 15 dayswith concurrent from the first session administration of a high oral daily dose of prednisone 1 mg/kg of body weight until clinical remission was achieved. PE was performed as follows 5 continuous flow sessions of PE in 15 days using a 0.6 m2 polypropylene hollow-fiber filter PF 2000 Gambro Lund Sweden as plasma separator. Fifty milliliters of plasma/ kg body weight/session was removed and an equivalent amount of solution containing albumin 5% sodium 145 mEq/L potassium 3 mEq/L calcium 5 mEq/L magnesium 1.9 mEq/L chloride 115 mEq/ L and lactate 35 mEq/L was reinfused.
A bolus of 7500 IU of heparin/session was used as the anticoagulant. After 3 months the schedule of prednisone was gradually modified to an alternate day dose regimen and subsequently if no fluctuations were discovered the treatment was slowly tapered to a minimal efficacy dosage of 510 mg on alternate days.The score for the weakness for each patient was determined from baseline to 24 and 48 h and to 5 15 and 30 days 3 and 6 months and 1 year after the start of treatment.Serum albumin concentrations measured by bromcresol method Instrumentation Laboratory Lexingt. on MA U.S.A. white blood cell WBC red blood cell RBC and platelet PLT counts electrolyte concentrations coagulation parameters C3 and C4 measured by Turbidimetric End Point Method Olympus Diagnostics GmbH Hamburg Germany and serum immunoglobulins measured by Turbidimetric End Point Method Olympus Diagnostics GmbH were determined before and after each PE treatment as well as serum concentrations of acetylcholine receptor antibodies AChR Ab measured by radio immunoassay CIS Diagnostic France.
Blood pressure heart rate and fluid balance were monitored during all treatments. Statistical analyses included means with SD and the paired Students t test. RESULTS end. All 17 patients who completed the protocol treatment had improvement in strength. Clinical evaluations reported as the means of numerical scores measured in all patients Fig. 1 showed statistically significant reductions at 24 h versus pretreatment at the 5th day versus the first day at the end of PE treatment 15th day versus the 5th day and at 1 3 and 6 months versus the prior time mean score. At the end of PE treatment a considerable improvement more than 90% of the initial clinical score was obtained in 8 of 18 patients. Improvement between 60 and 90% of the initial score was achieved in 10 of 18. An early evident improvement was observed 24 h after the start of treatment in 11 of 16. Oropharyngeal dysfunction when present returned to normal function after a mean of 6.3  4.2 days.One patient died 1 month from the start of the protocol from a myocardial infarction. The treatment was well tolerated in all patients without variations of blood pressure or heart rate. No complications related to the PE treatment or to the vascular access were reported in any patient.
The means of all theArtif Organs Vol. 22 No end. 2 1998hematological parameters collected before and after each PE treatment are shown in Fig. 2 and Table 4.A statistically significant mean reduction from 7.0  2.6 to 4.0  2.9 mmol/L of AChR Ab levels was observed in patients after each PE session compared to single pre PE levels in 15 of 18 patients p < 0.001 the values had risen to their previous levels when measured before the following treatment. Individiual values before and after 5 PE sessions are reported in Fig. 3.Thirty days after the beginning of this combined protocol all patients were under the 1 mg/kg of body weight daily doses of prednisone range 5075 mg that were then tapered by 65  15 days to a 5 mg daily minimum. From the start of treatment all patients were under a 230  70 mg dosage of pyridostigime that was tapered and discontinued within 2 months after remission of the symptoms mean 140  64 days from the end of PE treatment in 13 patients. In 4 patients pyridostigmine was discontinued within 2 months because of the early remission of symptoms.After a mean follow-up of 36 months range 656 16 patients treated with 5 mg of prednisone on alternate days were free of clinical signs.
In all cases posttreatment virology tests HBV HCV EBV HIV were negative showing that viral transmission did not occur due to albumin infusion during the PE. DISCUSSION. The purpose of this study was to answer relevant questions regarding the effect of PE in combination with steroid therapy in the management of severe forms of MG and fluctuations of myasthenic symptoms including an evaluation of the long-term effects of this combined treatment.Steroids are the most commonly used and most consistently effective immunosuppressive agents for the treatment of MG. However it has been reported that 48% of patients may have a steroid induced exacerbation of their disease during the first week of treatment 9 and that the risk of exacerbation is minimized by increasing the dose gradually beginning with a daily administration dose of 15 to 20 mg of prednisone and increasing it by about 5 mg every 2 or 3 days 10. After this form of therapy however clinical improvement is slow usually beginning within 24 weeks of treatment and with maximal benefit after 612 months. In our judgment this therapy is not indicated for severe forms of MG.Plasmapheresis produces short-term clinical improvement in patients with severe forms of MG by rapidly removing antibodies from the circulation 1112.
The beneficial effects of PE occur within days of treatment however the effects are temporary lasting 46 weeks 14 or a few months after PE 15. This treatment may produce long lasting benefits when combined with immunosuppressive drugs in terms of the rapidity of improvement after the start of therapy and short- or long-term fluctuations of myasthenic symptoms.Our results show that in severe forms of MG the concurrent treatment with PE and prednisone leads to a rapid within 2436 h remission of symptoms with the absence of steroid induced exacerbation and long lasting improvement with sporadic fluctuations of symptoms. Previous reports about the combined treatment of PE and corticosteriods or other immunosuppressive drugs have shown various grades of stabilization of illness or remissions but the introduction of steriod therapy was conducted atdifferent periods of time after PE 4. The rapid improvement related to PE seen in our patients is in agreement with another report 13 that showed an electrophysiological improvement after a single session of PE.
In addition recently it has been reported that the immunoadsorption a selective technique of immunoglobulin removal added to low doses of steroids or other cytotoxic drugs leads to an improvement lasting a mean of 24 months 17. Those authors concluded that PE or immunoadsorption can be used to improve muscular strength and to reduce disease exacerbations especially to reduce exacerbation of symptoms prior to the immunosuppressive drug effects and/or to prepare patients for thymectomy or other surgical procedures.According to our experience as we observed in a previous work on patients suffering from acute Guillain Barre syndrome the use of PE proved to be superior than immunoabsorption in inducing clinical benefits red. ucing costs of treatment 18. No unwanted effects relating to PE or to vascular access were experienced in the present patient series as well as in the just mentioned patients affected by Guillain-Barre syndrome.In the present study after 36 months of follow-up 16 of the 17 patients treated did not show any recurrence of symptoms and none exhibited any viral transmission that might have occurred due to PEprocedures.
CLINICAL STUDY OF FK506 IN PATIENTS WITH MYASTHENIA GRAVIS. To investigate the usefulness of low-dose FK506 for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG we treated 19 patients with generalized MG in a 16-week open clinical trial of FK506 35 mg/day. At the end of the trial total MG scores range 027 points improved by 3 points or more in 7 of 19 patients 37% and activities of daily living ADL scores range 06 points also improved by 1 point or more in 8 of 19 patients 42%. Nine of 19 patients 47% showed improvement in either MG or ADL scores. Significant reduction of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody titers and interleukin 2 production were observed at the end of this study. Minor but commonly observed side effects were an increase in neutrophil count and a decrease in lymphocyte count. No serious adverse events such as renal toxicity or diabetes mellitus were observed during the 16-week treatment period. FK506 could safely serve as an adjunct to steroid therapy for MG at low dosage.
Metropolitan Neurological Hospital Tokyo Japan 5 Department of Neurology National Nagoya Hospital Nagoya Japan Accepted 3 July 2003 It is widely accepted that myasthenia gravis MG a T-celldependent chronic autoimmune disorder is induced by sustained production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junction.2 MG is characterized by weakness and fatigability of skeletal bulbar and extraocular muscles. During the past 30 years treatment of MG has advanced significantly and prognosis has greatly improved with dramatically decreased mortality. Experienced clinicians have recommended early9 thymectomy in nonthymomatous autoimmune MG although its indication remains controversial because of unsatisfactory controlled studies5. Although long-term corticosteroid treatment markedly improves the condition of some 80% of MG patients10 the problem of steroid resistance and side effects have still to be resolved.
FK506 prevents the induction of MG in rats immunized with AChR peptide through a decrease in antigen-specific T-cell response14 suggesting a potential role for FK506 in the treatment of MG. We examined the efficacy and safety of FK506 in 19 patients with generalized MG in an open-label study. MATERIALS AND METHODS Our study was carried out at 10 hospitals in Japan between May 1997 and March 1999 in accordance Listed at the end of this article. Abbreviations AChR acetylcholine receptor ADL activities of daily living ELISA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay HbA1C hemoglobin A1C IL-2 interleukin 2 MG myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 28 570-574 2003. CLINICAL STUDY OF FK506 IN PATIENTS WITH MYASTHENIA GRAVIS. end. TETSURO KONISHI MD1 YASUMASA YOSHIYAMA MD2 MASAHARU TAKAMORI MD3 KOICHI YAGI MD4 EIICHIRO MUKAI MD5 TAKAHIKO SAIDA MD1.
ic autoimmune disorder is induced by sustained production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junction.2 MG is characterized by weakness and fatigability of skeletal bulbar and extraocular muscles. During the past 30 years treatment of MG has advanced significantly and prognosis has greatly improved with dramatically decreased mortality. Experienced clinicians have recommended early9 thymectomy in nonthymomatous autoimmune MG although its indication remains controversial because of unsatisfactory controlled studies5. Although long-term corticosteroid treat-ment markedly improves the condition of some 80% of MG patients10 the problem of steroid resistance and side effects have still to be resolved. Immunosuppressive drugs such as azathioprine and cyclosporine have been used successfully as supplementary treatments for refractory MG.2FK506 tacrolimus a new macrolide immunosuppressant derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis possesses strong immunosuppressive activity and specifically inhibits the activation of T-cells.6 FK506 inhibits the production of a number of cytokines interacting with helper T-cells11 and consequently decreases the production of antibodies by B-cells.
We examined the efficacy and safety of FK506 in 19 patients with generalized MG in an open-label study. MATERIALS AND METHODS. Our study was carried out at 10 hospitals in Japan between May 1997 and March 1999 in accordanceListed at the end of this article. Abbreviations AChR acetylcholine receptor ADL activities of daily living ELISA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay HbA1C hemoglobin A1C IL-2 interleukin 2 MG myasthenia gravis Key words clinical study FK506 immunosuppressive therapy myasthenia gravis tacrolimus Correspondence to T. Konishi e-mail konishiunh.hosp.go.jp 2003 Wiley Periodicals Inc.570 Efficacy of FK506 in MG MUSCLE  NERVE November 2003with the Declaration of Helsinki and the Good Clinical Practice guidelines. The study protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of each study center and written informed consent was obtained from all patients prior to entry. At entry all patients but one No. 19 who suffered from steroidinduced cataract after medication for 5 years in the past were receiving steroid therapy at an activities of daily living ADL score of 2 or more and required additional immunosuppression to heighten clinical improvement or reduce steroid side-effects such as hyperlipidemia glaucoma cataract and osteoporosis.
The dosage was increased to as high as 5 mg/day at the investigators discretion.Clinical observation and laboratory tests including anti-AChR antibody titers and FK506 concentrations in blood were performed at entry and 2 4 8 12 and 16 weeks after the initiation of FK506 treatment. The patients were also clinically observed 4 weeks before entry. Interleukin 2 IL-2 production in the peripheral blood was assayed before and 4 and 16 weeks after the initiation of treatment.Muscle strength was evaluated using a modified Besinger and Toyka MG score1 in order to assess symptoms of generalized MG. ADL score was assessed with a 7-step rating scale grade 0 no symptoms grade 1 presence of symptoms but no difficulty in carrying out daily activities office work or attending school grade 2 office work or school activities cannot be fully performed including limitations caused by ocular symptoms grade 3 office work school activities or outings are almost impossible and disorders of phonation or swallowing are sometimes encountered grade 4 barely able to move around in a room or take care of ones. elf and any disorder of phonation or swallowing is usually severe grade 5 bedridden or confined to a chair and grade 6 requiring regular or occasional ventilatory assistance.
The primary measure of efficacy was a reduction of at least 3 points in the MG score more than 10% of maximum value of total MG score 27 points or at least 1 point in the ADL score with maintained or reduced dosage of steroids.Titers of anti-AChR antibodies were measured by the immunoprecipitation method using human AChR labeled with 125I- -bungarotoxin8 as antigen. Blood concentrations of FK506 were measured byenzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ELISA ProTrac II Tacrolimus ELISA Kit DiaSorin Inc. Stillwater Minnesota using specific monoclonal antibody.12 IL-2 production was determined after 24-h stimulation of peripheral blood lymphocytes by Concanavalin A.4IL-2 levels in the supernatants were measured by radioimmunoassay using polyclonal rabbit antibody raised against human IL-2.7Statistical analysis was performed using Wilcoxon signed-rank test. The intrapatient comparison was done by comparing the value at each time point after the start of FK506 administration with the pretreatment value. P-values less than 0.05 were considered significant. RESULTS end. We treated 19 patients 6 men 13 women with generalized MG who ranged in age from 18 to 59 years median 47 years and whose duration of disease was 2.831.5 years median 12 years.
Sixteen patients completed the study and three failed to do so. Reasons for withdrawal were an aggravation of symptoms of MG myasthenic crisis in patient 7 at week 2 and patient 9 in week 13 one patient No. 19 made her own decision to withdraw at week 13. Three patients Nos. 1 10 and 11 had their steroid dosage reduced 21 9 and 40% reduction respectively during the study and one No. 6 had the dosage increased 33%. FK506 dosage was started at 3 mg/day for all patients 5 patients Nos. 3 4 7 9 and 18 were later given doses of up to 5 mg/day. The blood level of FK506 was less than 10 ng/ml in all but one in whom it was 12 ng/ml.At the end of this trial total MG score was decreased for 13 of 19 patients Table 1. Among these an improvement of three points or more was observed in seven patients Nos. 1 2 5 8 13 16 and 17. Table 1 shows that all patients had been impaired in performance of ADL grade 2 3 or 4. At the end of this trial ADL scores were also improved by one point or more in eight patients Nos. 1 2 3 5 8 13 14 and 17. Nine of 19 patients 47% showed an improvement in either MG or ADL scores.The median value of total MG score was significantly decreased at 8 12 and 16 weeks after FK506 treatment initiation Fig. 1 end.
FK506 also improved ADLEfficacy of FK506 in MG MUSCLE  NERVE November 2003 571scores significantly at the 12th and 16th weeks compared with that at entry Fig. 2.Anti-AChR antibody titer was significantly decreased by about 20% from the basal level median 11.0 nM at 12 median 8.2 nM P 0.05 and 16 median 8.9 nM P 0.05 weeks after the initiation of FK506 treatment. The anti-AChR antibody titers were decreased in 11 of 19 patients 58% at the end of this trial. Marked suppression of IL-2 production to less than 10% of the pretreatment basal level median 9.4 U/ml was observed at the end of this study median 0.9 U/ml P 0.01.Eighteen side effects were observed in 7 37% of the 19 patients. An increase in neutrophil count and decrease in lymphocyte count were commonly seen during the treatment but they were not serious and exhibited no relationship to serum FK506 concentration. No increase in serum creatinine was observed 0 week 0.7 0.1 mg/dl to 16 weeks 0.7 0.1mg/dl. Hemoglobin A1C HbA1C levels did not differ between values obtained at entry 5.1 0.5% and the 16th week 5.0 0.4% of the treatment. In this study one patient No. 10 exhibited an increase in HbA1C 0 week 5.2% 16 weeks 5.7% but within the normal range.Twelve patients Nos.
The efficacy demonstrated in the short-term study was maintained during long-term observation without serious side effects.The remaining four cases dropped out due to procedural difficulties at the treatment facilities in switching from this 16-week short-term study to the long-term study. DISCUSSION. Tindall et al.13 reported that an improvement of four points or more more than 10% of maximum value of total MG score was associated with a sustained change in 8 of 20 cyclosporine-treated patients but in only 2 of 19 patients receiving placebo. Major differences in total MG score between that study max 39 points and ours max 27 points were bilateral muscle strength evaluation in the former and unilateral evaluation in the latter resulting in a 12-point difference. It is reasonable to consider that a total MG score change of three points or more is equivalent to the more than 10% change in total maximum MG score in our study and that these measures of efficacy are clinically significant.
limb muscle strength improved as soon as 2 weeks after the start of administration. Since neither MG nor ADL scores differed significantly between 4 weeks before entry and at entry it appears that the improvement in MG and ADL scores after the start of administration was produced by FK506. There were no trends in efficacy of FK506 related to age sex thymic pathology disease duration decrease in anti-AChR antibody titer or IL-2 production or FK506 blood concentration in this study.In seven patients side effects such as gastrointestinal symptoms and abnormal changes in clinical laboratory test values occurred without allopathic treatment. Infection and renal toxicity have been reported at high doses of FK506 when used for organ transplantation but they were not noted in our MG patients who were treated at low dose. In the present 16-week study of FK506 treatment no increase in serum creatinine or HbA1C was observed. Evoli et al.
This study was supported by a grant from Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Osaka Japan.Other participating members of The Japanese FK506 MG Study Group were Gen Sobue MD Nagoya University School of Medicine Fumio Kanda MD Kobe University School of Medicine Jun-ichi Kira MD Kyushu University School of MedicineEfficacy of FK506 in MG MUSCLE  NERVE November 2003 573Tatsufumi Nakamura MD Nagasaki University School of Medicine and Naoki Fujii MD National Chikugo Hospital. Does early treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis with prednisone reduce progression to generalized disease. The levator palpebrae and extraocular muscles are preferentially affected by Myasthenia Gravis MG.1 Approximately 50% of patients who do not have clinical dysfunction in the voluntary muscles of the lower face neck or below Ocular Myasthenia GravisOMG will develop generalized disease GMG with the majority occurring within 1 year 2 and 8090% within 2 years 35. Recall that presence of abnormal serum acetylcholine receptor antibody and electromyogram of muscles below the face is not a criterion for diagnosing GMG.
Thus the question is to find a therapy that reduces the tendency to develop GMG and has a low risk of significant adverse effects. Additionally few studies have addressed the visual symptoms and ocular findings 78 such as diplopia and loss of depth perception that limit patient activities of daily living such as driving. In this issue the report by Monsul et al. 9 joins the growing number of retrospective studies 7810 suggesting that early immunomodulatory treatment particularly corticosteroids can delay and possibly reduce the frequency of progression of OMG to GMG. The authors retrospectively analyzed the records of 56 patients with OMG all initially treated with pyridostigmine 27 of who were treated with prednisone after failing to respond to pyridostigmine. Prednisone started at 4060 mg daily was gradually decreased over 36 months. At 2 years GMG developed in 3/27 11% of prednisone-treated and in 10/29 34% pyridostigmine only-treated patients  p  0.04. It appears that prednisone significantly reduced the frequency of GMG without major side effects. However the treatment groups were not matched for the frequency of abnormal acetylcholine receptor antibody an important risk factor for developing GMG 810.
It is unclear whether the delay before initiating prednisone biased the treatment group to include patients with lower risk of developing. www.elsevier.com/locate/jnsJournal of the Neurological Sciences 217 2004 123124EditorialDoes early treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis with prednisonereduce progression to generalized diseaseThe levator palpebrae and extraocular muscles are preferentially affected by Myasthenia Gravis MG.1 Approximately 50% of patients who do not have clinical dysfunction in the voluntary muscles of the lower face neck or below Ocular Myasthenia GravisOMG will develop generalized disease GMG with the majority . occurring within 1 year 2 and 8090% within 2 years 35. Recall that presence of abnormal serum acetylcholine receptor antibody and electromyogram of muscles below the face is not a criterion for diagnosing GMG. Since to many neurologists diplopia and ptosis are not considered debilitating in comparison to potential complications of immunomodulatory therapies and pyridostigmine is often considered sufficient therapy until more serious disease arises 6. Thus the question is to find a therapy that reduces the tendency to develop GMG and has a low risk of significant adverse effects.
9 joins the growing number of retrospective studies 7810 suggesting that early immunomodulatory treatment particularly corticosteroids can delay and possibly reduce the frequency of progression of OMG to GMG. The authors retrospectively analyzed the records of 56 patients with OMG all initially treated with pyridostigmine 27 of who were treated with prednisone after failing to respond to pyridostigmine. Prednisone started at 4060 mg daily was gradually decreased over 36 months. At 2 years GMG developed in 3/27 11% of prednisone-treated and in 10/29 34% pyridostigmine only-treated patients  p  0.04. It appears that prednisone significantly reduced the frequency of GMG without major side effects.However the treatment groups were not matched for the frequency of abnormal acetylcholine receptor antibody an important risk factor for developing GMG 810. Nevertheless the benefit of prednisone was evident in anther study where the treatment group had a similar frequency of abnormal acetylcholine receptor antibody but higher mean serum levels than in the controls 10. It is unclear whether the delay before initiating prednisone biased the treatment group to include patients with lower risk of developing0022-510X/ - see front matter D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Many patients seemed to remain on moderate to high dose prednisone longer than patients in another recent study 10 so it is possible that osteopenia or osteoporosis that typically occurs during the first 6 months of high dose corticosteroids 11 developed in some patients.Other approaches to modulate the autoimmune disorder of OMG include the use of azathioprine or thymectomy. Although thymectomy has been reported to restore vision and prevent GMG in small cases series typically the surgery was performed 12 months or later in the course of the illness most likely in patients with a low risk of developing GMG 812. The data on azathioprine alone or in combination with prednisolone delaying or preventing GMG are not as robust 8.After an initial period with immune suppressing doses of corticosteroids the benefit may be maintained with doses that do not suppress the immune system and appear to cause few major systemic adverse effects. The clinical effects are supported by the results in vitro studies of human muscle that suggest corticosteroids independent of immunosuppression increase the number of acetylcholine receptors 1314 and prevent receptor loss induced by the serum from GMG patients.
It is unknown whether these recovered postsynaptic receptor complexes function normally if corticosteroids prevent autoimmune injury or whether suppressing the autoimmune process after the development of GMG is as beneficial as intervention while the disorder is limited to OMG.Does prednisone therapy in safe doses actually reduce the incidence of GMG or merely delay the eventual onset In the latter situation is it necessary to prevent the early development of GMG or will subsequent immunomodulat. ory treatment give the same benefit as therapy begun in the OMG stage and effectively normalize injured neuromuscular junctions and restore function An additional issue not addressed by Monsul et al. 9 is the need to restore binocular visual function in OMG patients with ptosis and diplopia. These questions can only be answeredEditorial124by prospective data collection in rigorously designed clinical trials.References1 Kaminski H Maas E Spiegel P Ruff R. Why are the eye musclesfrequently involved by myasthenia gravis Neurology 199040 16639. 2 Grob D Brunner Y Namba T. The course of myasthenia gravis andtherapies affecting outcome. Ann NY Acad Sci 198137765269.3 Schlezinger N Fairfax W. Evaluation of ocular signs and symptomsin myasthenia.4 Bever C Aquino A Penn A Lovelace R Rowland L.
Ann Neurol 1983145169.5 Oosterhuis H. The natural course of myasthenia gravis a long termfollow up study. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 19895211217.6 Kaminski H Daroff R. Treatment of ocular myasthenia. Steroids onlywhen compelled. Arch Neurol 2000577523.7 Kupersmith MJ Moster M Bhuiyan S Warren F Weinberg H. Ben-eficial effects of corticosteroids on ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 1996538024. 8 Sommer N Sigg B Melms A Weller M Schepelmann K Herzau Vet al. Ocular myasthenia gravis response to long term immunosuppressive treatment. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 19976215662. 9 Monsul NT Patwa HS Knorr AM Lesser RL Goldstein JM. Theeffect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci 20042171313. 10 Kupersmith MJ Latkany R. Development of generalized disease attwo years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 2003602438. 11 Sambrook P Birmingham J Kempler S et al. Corticosteroid effectson proximal femur bone loss. J Bone Miner Res 1990512116.12 Nakumura H Taniguchi Y Suzuki Y et al. Delayed remission afterthymectomy for myasthenia gravis of the purely ocular type. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 19961123715. 13 Askanas V Cave V Martinuzzi A Engel W.
Neurology 198636241. 14 Kaplan I Blakely BT Pavlath GK Travis M Blau HM. Steroidsinduce acetylcholine receptors on cultured human muscle implication for myasthenia gravis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 19908781004. 15 Askanas V McFerrin J Park-Matsumoto YC Lee CS Engel WK.Glucocorticoid increases acetylcholinesterase and organization of the postsynaptic membrane in innervated cultured human muscle. Exp Neurol 199211536875.Mark J. KupersmithNeuro-ophthalmology Service of the INNBeth Israel Medical Center and New York Eye andEar Infirmary 170 East End Avenue at 87 St.New York NY 10128 USAE-mail address mkuperbethisraelny.org Tel. 1-212-870-9418 fax 1-212-870-728228 October 2003. Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index. Objective To study responsiveness and meaningful change of the Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index MGII and its relative efficiency compared to other measures. Methods We enrolled 95 patients receiving prednisone IV immunoglobulin IVIg or plasma exchange PLEX and 54 controls. Patients were assessed with the MGII and other measures including the Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score Myasthenia Gravis Composite and Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Livingat baseline and 34 weeks after treatment.
Patient-meaningful change was assessed with an anchor-based method using the patients impression of change. We determined the minimal detectable change MDC and the minimal important difference MID at the group and individual level. Results Treated patients had a higher change in MGII scores than controls analysis of covariance p  0.001. The ocular domain changed more with prednisone than with IVIg/PLEX effect size 0.67 and 0.13 analysis of covariance p 5 0.001. The generalized domain changed more with IVIg/PLEX than with prednisone effect size 0.50 and 0.22 analysis of covariance p5 0.07. For the total MGII score the individual MDC95 was 9.1 and the MID was 5.5 for individuals and 8.1 for groups. Relative efficiency ratios were .1 favoring the MGII. Conclusions The MGII demonstrated responsiveness to prednisone IVIg and PLEX in patients with myasthenia. There is a differential response in ocular and generalized symptoms to type of therapy. The MGII has higher relative efficiency than comparison measures and is viable for use in clinical trials.
led trial ROC 5 receiver operator characteristic SEM 5 standard error of measurement SRM 5 standardized response mean. The Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index MGII is a novel measure of myasthenia gravis MG severity with demonstrated feasibility reliability and construct validity. Strengths of the MGII are that it was developed following current recommendations incorporating patient input at different stages and has less floor effect than other commonly used measures. A floor effect means that some symptomatic patients might have scores at the lower end of the scale making it difficult to document change after an intervention. Therefore the MGII might be more sensitive to detect change than other measures but responsiveness has not been assessed. From the Division of Neurology C.B. V.B. Department of Medicine M.K. University of Toronto and University Health Network Institute of Health Policy Management and Evaluation M.K. A.V.K. A.M.D. and Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science Institute A.M.D. University of Toronto Division of Neurosurgery A.V.K. Sick Kids Hospital and Division of Health Care and Outcomes A.M.D. Krembil Research Institute University Health Network Toronto Canada. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures.
The Article Processing Charge was funded by the authors. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal. Copyright  2017 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 1 Published Ahead of Print on November 3 2017 as 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004676. Carolina Barnett MD PhD Vera Bril MD FRCP Moira Kapral MD Abhaya V. Kulkarni MDPhD Aileen M. Davis PhDCorrespondence to Dr. Barnett c.barnetttapiautoronto.caSupplemental data at Neurology.orgObjective To study responsiveness and meaningful change of the Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index MGII and its relative efficiency compared to other measures.Methods We enrolled 95 patients receiving prednisone IV immunoglobulin IVIg or plasma exchange PLEX and 54 controls. Patients were assessed with the MGII and other measures including the Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score Myasthenia Gravis Composite and Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Livingat baseline and 34 weeks after treatment.
Patient-meaningful change was assessed with an anchor-based method using the patients impression of change. We determined the minimal detectable change MDC and the minimal important difference MID at the group and individual level.Results Treated patients had a higher change in MGII scores than controls analysis of covariance p  0.001. The ocular domain changed more with prednisone than with IVIg/PLEX effect size 0.67 and 0.13 analysis of covariance p 5 0.001. The generalized domain changed more with IVIg/PLEX than with prednisone effect size 0.50 and 0.22 analysis of covariance p5 0.07. For the total MGII score the individual MDC95 was 9.1 and the MID was 5.5 for individuals and 8.1 for groups. Relative efficiency ratios were .1 favoring the MGII.Conclusions The MGII demonstrated responsiveness to prednisone IVIg and PLEX in patients with myasthenia. There is a differential response in ocular and generalized symptoms to type of therapy. The MGII has higher relative efficiency than comparison measures and is viable for use in clinical trials. Neurology 20178918. GLOSSARY end.
rator characteristic SEM 5 standard error of measurement SRM 5 standardized response mean.The Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index MGII is a novel measure of myasthenia gravis MG severity with demonstrated feasibility reliability and construct validity.1 Strengths of the MGII are that it was developed following current recommendations2 incorporating patient input at different stages and has less floor effect than other commonly used measures.1 A floor effect means that some symptomatic patients mi. ght have scores at the lower end of the scale making it difficult to document change after an intervention. Therefore the MGII might be more sensitive to detect change than other measures but responsiveness has not been assessed.From the Division of Neurology C.B. V.B. Department of Medicine M.K. University of Toronto and University Health Network Institute of Health Policy Management and Evaluation M.K. A.V.K. A.M.D. and Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science Institute A.M.D. University of Toronto Division of Neurosurgery A.V.K. Sick Kids Hospital and Division of Health Care and Ou. tcomes A.M.D. Krembil Research Institute University Health Network Toronto Canada. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures.
The Article Processing Charge was funded by the authors. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal.Copyright  2017 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 1Different methods to determine responsiveness reflect different views of what relevant means.34 Statistical measures of responsiveness such as t testsmay detect differences that are not meaningful for patients. The minimal detectable change MDC is the smallest change that is significantly beyond error of measurement.35 Therefore the MDC is useful to understand if a change in score is likely true changemore than error or not just errorbut does not provide the patients perspective. The minimal important difference MID is the smallest change that patients consider meaningful5 and it should be larger than the MDC to be interpretable. Different methods to estimate the MID have been proposed.
The former reflect statistical change and the latterby incorporating the patients views imply meaningfulness from a patients perspective.35 Therefore anchor-based methods are preferred for determining meaningful change.2 The MDC and MID can be calculated at the group levelthe smallest important mean change in a group such as in a clinical trialor individual level the smallest change to determine whether an individual has improved.5 Table e-1 at Neurology.org shows different definitions of respon. siveness and meaningful change.We studied responsiveness and meaningful change of the MGII in patients with MG requiring treatment with prednisone IV immunoglobulin IVIg or plasma exchange PLEX where clinical change is expected within short periods of time.67 We followed published recommendations8 and used different approaches to determine statistical and patient-meaningful change. Finally we estimated the MID and the MDC to aid in the interpretation of change scores. As a secondary objective we compared the relative efficiency of the MGII to other measures.METHODS Standard protocol approvals registrations and patient consents. The University Health Network Research Ethics Board approved the study and all patients provided informed consent.Patients.
We assessed patients at baseline and 3 4 weeks after IVIg/PLEX or after starting prednisone. Patients received IVIg or PLEX according to standard protocols.6 The dose of prednisone was determined by the treating physician. We included as controls those patients who participated in the MGII reliability study1 who did not receive an intervention and had a second visit within 3 weeks.Measures. The MGII has 22 patient-reported and 6 examination items. Total score ranges from 0 to 84 higher scores indicating more severe impairments. The MGII can be divided into 2 subscores ocular 8 items and generalized 20 items and missing responses are imputed using the mean score of the item domain ocular/generalized. At follow-up patients indicated if they felt better worse or unchanged as patient impression of change PIC. Patients who felt better or worse answered a 5-level Likert scale ranging from almost the same to much better/ worse. Patients were also assessed with the Myasthenia Gravis Composite MGC9 the Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score QMGS10 and the Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living MG-ADL11 for MG severity. Patients completed the NeuroQoL-fatigue short form12 to quantify fatigue and diseasespecific MG-QOL1513 and generic EQ-5D-5L14 quality of life questionnaires.
Demographic data were evaluated with means 6 SD or counts and proportions. There are no formal methods to calculate sample size for responsiveness studies but guidelines recommend a minimum of 50 patients.8 We aimed to enroll 50 patients per treatment group prednisone and IVIg/PLEX to ensure a broad range of treatment response. We used R statistical software v.3.1.2 and considered p values 0.05 as significant.Statistically significant change. Between-groups responsiveness. We compared the mean change inMGII scores between treated patients and controls expecting higher change in treated patients unpaired t test because of differences in baseline scores among treatment groups we used analysis of covariance ANCOVA to compare the 3 groups prednisone IVIg/PLEX and controls. We combined IVIg and PLEX in one group as they have similar efficacy.615 We also calculated between-groups ES816 for the total ocular and generalized scores.We studied the subgroup of patients with pure ocular disease comparing the mean change in scores in treated vs untreated patients unpaired t test. We expected significant change in the total and ocular scores but not in the generalized score.Within-group responsiveness.
We calculated the relative efficiency of the MGII compared with the QMGS the MGC and the MG-ADL using the paired t test statistic as follows t statistic MGII/t statistic comparison measure2.1718 With the MGII in the numerator a ratio .1 indicates that the MGII is more efficient requires a smaller sample size to detect a specific effect size than the comparator. We also estimated the standardized response mean SRM as shown in table e-1.16We studied longitudinal construct validity through correlations between the change in MGII scores and other measures.8 We expected moderate r 0.40.7 correlations with change in the MGC QMGS MG-ADL and NeuroQoL-fatigue and low to moderate correlations r 0.20.5 with change in quality of life2 Neurology 89 December 5 2017EQ-5D and MG-QOL15 scores. Confirming 75% of predefined hypotheses is a marker of construct validity.19Patient meaningful change. We compared the change in MGII scores across PIC categories better unchanged and worse in treated patients adjusting for baseline values ANCOVA. We expected a significant difference in change scores with improved patients changing more than those unchanged or worse.
We estimated the MDC with 90% and 95% confidence intervals CIs using the SEM as seen in table e-1.4520 SEM values for the MGII are 3.3 for the total and 2.2 for the ocular and generalized scores.1 The MDC at the group level is the individual MDC divided by the squared root of the sample size.21 We planned different anchor-based methods to estimate theMID using the PIC option a little better asmarker of minimal improvement. We calculated the MID at a group level as the mean change in patients feeling a little better and also the 75% percentile for potential misclassification bias.422 Additionally we built receiver operator characteristic ROC curves considering patients feeling a little better and higher as improved the point of best sensitivity and specificity is the MID at the individual level.523 For each estimate of the individual-levelMDC andMID we calculated sensitivity specificity positive predictive values a. nd negative predictive values to detect a responder.
Fifty-four patients from the reliabilityAbbreviations AChR Ab 5 acetylcholine receptor antibodies I 5 pure ocular II 5 mild generalized III 5 moderate generalized IV 5 severe generalized IVIg 5 IV immunoglobulin MG-ADL 5 Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living MGC 5 Myasthenia Gravis Composite MGFA 5 Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGII 5 Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index MM 5 minimal manifestations MuSK 5 Muscle Specific Kinase antibodies PLEX 5 plasma exchange QMGS 5 Quantitative. Myasthenia Gravis Score R 5 remission. aAntibody data available for 95 patients 34 24 and 37 patients in the control prednisone and IVIg/PLEX group respectively. The percentage presented reflects positive antibodies on those tested.Neurology 89 December 5 2017 3study were included as controls. Demographic data are reported in table 1. Of the treated patients 50 53% received prednisonemean dose 236 10 mg per dayand 45 47% IVIg/PLEX. All MGII items had 6% missing responses.Statistically significant change. Between-groups responsiveness. The mean change in MGII score was 26.9 6 11.8 for all treated patients and 20.6 6 5.3 for controls t test p  0.0001 the mean change for prednisone was 27.0 6 10.3 and 26.8 6 13.2 for IVIg/PLEX 3 groups including controls ANCOVA p  0.0001.
The change in generalized score was smaller in the prednisone compared to the IVIg/PLEX group not reaching statistical significance 22.3 vs 25.4 ANCOVA p 5 0.07. Responsiveness statistics are in table 2.In the pure ocular disease subgroup n 5 23 16 patients received prednisone and 7 were controls. The mean change in total score was23.6 6 6.9 for prednisone and 0.36 3.2 for controls t test p5 0.07 ES 5 1.3. The mean change in the ocular score was 24.1 6 5.9 for prednisone vs 0.6 6 1.9 for controls p5 0.009 ES5 1.1. The generalized score did not change in treated or control patients 20.3 6 2.2 vs 0.5 6 3.3 p 5 0.8.Within-group responsiveness. The paired t tests for the total generalized and ocular scores showed significant differences for all treatments p  0.05. The ocular score SRM was higher for prednisone 0.85 than immunomodulation 0.31. The generalized score SRM was higher for immunomodulation 0.51 than prednisone 0.31. All the relative efficiency ratios were .1 table 3.As expected the MGII change scores had moderate correlations with change in other MG severity measures r 0.480.71 and lower correlations with quality of life measures r 0.290.39 table e-3.Patient meaningful change. Of the 95 treated patients 63 66% felt better 18 19% unchanged and 1415% worse at follow-up.
The mean change in total ocular and generalized MGII scores was significantly different in patients who were better than those unchanged or worse ANCOVA p  0.0001 table 4.The mean change in MGII scores in responders patients who were a little better or higher n 5 58 was 210.7 6 11.9 for the total 24.3 6 4.8 for the ocular and26.46 9.6 for the generalized scores.MCD and MID. At the individual level the MDC95 was 9.1 for the total score and 6.0 for the ocular and generalized scores the MDC90 was 7.7 for the total and 5.1 for the ocular and generalized scores. At the group level the MDC95 was 1.5 for the total and 0.9 for the generalized and ocular scores the MDC90 was 1.1 for total and 0.8 for the ocular and generalized scores.Eleven patients were a little better and the MID group levelwas 8.1 points median 9.0 75th percentile 2.5 for the total MGII score 2.6 points median 2 75th percentile 1 for the ocular score and 5.5 points median 5 75th percentile 1 for the generalized score. We could not estimate the MID by baseline values given the small group who were a little better.The ROC curve for the change in total MGII score had an area under the curve AUC of 0.76 CI 0.660.86 figure e-1. The optimum cutpoint was 5.5 with 64% sensitivity and 73% specificity.
The ocular MGII score ROC had an AUC of 0.66 and was not reliable for cutpoints. Only 14 patients felt worse so we could not estimate the MID for worsening. Table 5 summarizes individual MDC and MID cutpoints with their sensitivity specificity and predictive values.DISCUSSION This study provides evidence that the MGII is sensitive to detect change in patients with MG receiving prednisone IVIg or PLEX as treatedTable 2 Between-groups responsiveness of the Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index and subscoresControls n 5 54 changePrednisone n 5 50 IVIg/PLEX n 5 45 All treated n 5 95Change ES Change ES Change ESTotal score 20.6 6 5.3 26.9 6 10.3 0.37 26.8 6. 13.2 0.37 26.9 6 11.8 0.37Ocular score 20.7 6 2.8 24.7 6 5.4 0.67 21.5 6 4.8 0.13 23.1 6 5.4 0.40Generalized score 0.1 6 4.2 22.3 6 7.4 0.22 25.4 6 10.6 0.50 22.9 6 6.7 0.28Abbreviations ES 5 between-groups effect size change treatment 2 change control/SD baseline IVIg 5 IV immunoglobulin PLEX 5 plasma exchange. Analysis of covariance showed that the change in total ocular and generalized scores was significantly different among controls prednisone and IVIg/ PLEX groups p  0.001 correcting for baseline values.4 Neurology 89 December 5 2017patients had higher change in MGII scores than controls.
Therefore the different responsiveness of subscores possibly reflects a specific treatment effect. In a randomized controlled trial RCT of IVIg vs placebo patients with pure ocular disease responded less than those with generalized disease2526 supporting our findings. Using subscores might help to compare the efficacy of different treatments on different body regions affected by MG.The MGII had higher relative efficiency than the other measures tested meaning that it will require a smaller sample size to detect the same effect magnitude. The change in QMGS scores was smaller in this study than in previous RCTs of IVIg/PLEX.625 In the present study the inclusion criterion was only that the treating physician prescribed IVIg/PLEX while the RCTs had more stringent criteria which might result in more responsive patients. In addition patients in RCTs often do better than patients in realworld settings. In fact in the IVIg vs placebo study no treated patients were worse at follow-up25 while in this study 9 20% of the IVIg/PLEX patients reported worsening.
were significantly different across the PIC categories of better worse and unchanged. The correlation between the PIC with the MGII change scores supports its use as anchor. Previous studies on MG measures2728 have used the change in the MG-QOL15 and physician impression of change as criteria for improvement. However the MID for the MG-QOL15 is unknown and given the short-term interventions we did not expect major changes in quality of life.To aid in the interpretation of change scores we estimated the MDC and the MID at the group and individual level. The estimates at the group level are useful for clinical trials to interpret the mean change in scores in a treatment group and to calculate sample size. The MID for groups is 8.1 pointsabove the MDC95 at the group level 1.5reflecting change above error of measurement. Therefore we suggest that a difference of 8.1 points can be used to estimateAbbreviations IVIg 5 IV immunoglobulin MG-ADL 5 Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living MGC 5 Myasthenia Gravis Composite Scale MGII 5 Myasthenia Gravis impairment Index PLEX 5 plasma exchange QMGS 5 Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score SRM 5 standardized response mean change score T2 2 T1/SD difference.
All coefficients were .1 indicating higher efficiency of the MGII t test 5 t statistic of the paired t test baselinevisit 2.Table 4 Mean change scores in treated patients according to patient impression of changeMGII component Better n 5 63 Unchanged n 5 18 Worse n 5 14 ANCOVA p value Little better n 5 11Total score 210.0 6 11.7 23.2 6 8.8 2.4 6 8.8 0.001 28.1 6 8.9Ocular score 24.2 6 4.7 22.8 6 5.2 1.1 6 6.6 0.001 22.6 6 2.8Generalized score 25.8 6 9.5 20.4 6 8.0 1.3 6 5.4 0.001 25.5 6 8.6Abbre. viations ANCOVA 5 analysis of covariance MGII 5 Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index. ANCOVA demonstrated significantly different change in total ocular and generalized. MGII scores in patients reporting to be better unchanged and worse. Little better is a subgroup of those who were overall better.Neurology 89 December 5 2017 5sample size for trials. For a 2-arm parallel study with a 5 0.05 and 80% power 86 patients43 per groupwould be required which is feasible. An alternative would be using the mean change in those patients who were considered responders 10.7 points. The estimates at the individual level help determine whether a patient has had meaningful change to classify patients who are responders to an intervention.
Therefore while a cutpoint of 5.5 has the best sensitivity and specificity to define a responder there is some risk of misclassification due to error of measurement. Using the MDC to define responders will reduce sensitivity but increase specificity so choosing a cutpoint depends on the clinical scenario and whether one wants to maximize sensitivity or specificity table 5.A strength of this study is that we used a framework of responsiveness and important change to clarify what the different definitions of relevant change mean. We also used an anchor-based approach using patient self-report for the MID estimation avoiding the use of distribution-based methods which are no longer recommended.5 To make the results meaningful for clinicians and researchers working with patients with MG we considered multiple approaches to understand what magnitude of change is meaningful at a group and individual patient level. In addition we studied responsiveness to specific interventions and had a control group that was stable between assessments that occurred within the same timeframe as the treated group.A limitation is that although most treated patients felt better few were just a little bettermost reporting larger improvement.
This small group also prevented us from estimating MID values according to baseline scores and because few patients felt worse we could not estimate the MID for worsening.45 In addition we only had one MuSK-positive patient so these findings might not be generalizable to that specific population.We assessed patients 3 weeks after treatment to ensure homogeneous follow-up time but we recognize that in the prednisone group the generalized score could have improved more with longer treatment. In addition this limits the generalizability to chronic treatments e.g. azathioprine that have a much slower effect and where the MID values might be different. Since patients might experience adaptation to their symptoms with time it is possible that they have different views of minimal improvement for interventions that require a long lime to act. Therefore future studies are needed to understand the MID for slow-acting treatments. For long-term outcomes studying patient-acceptable symptom statesscore thresholds where patients feel good enough rather than bettermight be more meaningful.29The MGII is sensitive to detect statistically and patient meaningful change in patients with MG receiving prednisone IVIg or PLEX.
MID individual Based on the receiver operator characteristic curves where responders were those a little better and higher n 5 58. a The receiver operator characteristic curve for ocular score had area under the curve 0.7 and thus was not reliable.6 Neurology 89 December 5 2017size estimations are feasible for future intervention studies. In addition the MGII subscores are responsive and the ocular component can be used for clinical trials in pure ocular disease. The ocular and generalized scores may have differential responsiveness according to the intervention and this should be studied with other treatments. The MDC and MID differ for groups and individuals and cutpoints for improvement should be chosen based on the clinical scenario. These findings support the use of the MGII to detect change in patients receiving interventions for MG. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS. Carolina Barnett participated in the design of the study data collection and analysis and writing the manuscript. Vera Bril participated in the design of the study data collection and review of the data and manuscript. Moira Kapral participated in the design of the study and review of the data and manuscript. Abhaya Kulkarni participated in the design of the study and review of the data and manuscript.
STUDY FUNDING. Carolina Barnett received salary support through a clinical research training award by the American Academy of Neurology and American Brain Foundation. DISCLOSURE. C end. Barnett has been consultant for UBC and CSL. V end. Bril has acted as consultant for Grifols CSL Bionevia Lilly Pfizer Dainippon Sumitomo and Eisai and has received research grant support from all of these. M end. Kapral A end. Kulkarni and A. Davis report no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures.Received June 6 2017. Accepted in final form September 13 2017. Long-Term Corticosteroid Treatment. Myasthenia gravis MG is reported to have an incidence of 14OOOO to 120000 in the United States. These estimates are probably low because mild forms may not come to the attention of a physician acute severe cases may lead to sudden death and all forms may present difficulty in diagnosis. In the past 20 years the physiologic and immunologic bases of MG have been remarkably elucidated. Even though important questions remain unanswered the treatment and management of patients have improved so that the 35% mortality rate of 20 years ago has dropped to almost zero. Deaths are more often due to associated or complicating illnesses.
In some series 75 to 80% of patients experience marked improvement or remission with therapy so that they are able to return to their jobs or ordinary activities.. Myasthenia gravis is largely a postsynaptic postjunctional disorder. The number of effective acetylcholine receptors  AChR is reduced perhaps because anti-AChR antibodies cause increased turnover of AChR and a decreased number of sites. It is unlikely that the anti-AChR antibodies are all of one type. The most common precipitation technique using human AChR as antigen demonstrates antibodies in 75 to 94% of patients. Antibodies against AChR have been produced in human thymus cell cultures. There is no firm relationship between antibody levels and severity of illness in groups of patients although a single patient may improve-for instance with plasma exchange-as his AChR antibody levels decrease. Some patients with MG have antibodies to thyroid gastric parietal cells bone marrow ovary or striated muscle especially with thymoma. From a pharmacologic standpoint postsynaptic disorders are treated with cholinesterase inhibitors ChEI such as neostigmine and pyridostigmine bromide. The use of ChEI the mainstay of therapy for MG from 1934 until only nine or ten years ago has been deemphasized in recent reports.
In many instances we assume the responsibility of the critical care of patients with respiratory failure and the care of patients preand post-thymectomy. Furthermore we are responsible for evaluating the course of the illness and response to therapy both over the short term of hours ChEI and plasma exchange or the longer term of days months and even years corticosteroids antimetabolites plasma exchange and thymectomy. Regardless of the outcome of therapy that modifies immune mech-. Response to rocuronium and its determinants in patients with myasthenia gravis A casecontrol study. BACKGROUND Several previous studies using univariate analysis have suggested that the pre-anaesthetic train-of-four TOF ratio concentration of anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies and the presence of preoperativegeneralised muscular involvement are determinants of an increased response to neuromuscular blocking agents NMBAs in patients with myasthenia gravis. However the determinants of the response of patients with myasthenia gravis to rocuronium which is expected to be used more frequently since the advent of sugammadex have not been studied. CopyrEur J Anaesthesiol 2015 32672680igFroCo Ku Te02ORIGINAL ARTICLE. Response to rocuronium and. its determinants in patients with myasthenia gravis.
Masafumi Fujimoto Shuhei Terasaki Masaaki Nishi and Tatsuo YamamotoBACKGROUND Several previous studies using univariate analysis have suggested that the pre-anaesthetic train-of-four TOF ratio concentration of anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies and the presence of preoperativegeneralised muscular involvement are determinants of an increased response to neuromuscular blocking agents NMBAs in patients with myasthenia gravis. However the determinants of the response of patients with myasthenia gravis to rocuronium which is expected to be used more frequently since the advent of sugammadex have not been studied.OBJECTIVES To clarify whether previously suggested determinants of the response to other intermediate-acting NMBAs would also affect the response to rocuronium and to reveal the determinants of the increased response to rocuronium in individual patients with myasthenia gravis using multivariate analysis.DESIGN . Case control study.SETTING Kumamoto University Hospital November 2010 to September 2013.PATIENTS Thirty-eight patients with myasthenia gravis having surgery using a total intravenous anaesthetic technique were investigated. After induction of general anaesthesia the 95% effective dose ED95 of rocuronium was calculated using cumulative dose-finding methods.
Unm the Department of Anesthesiology Graduate School of Medical Sciences Kumrrespondence to Masafumi Fujimoto MD Department of Anesthesiology Gradua mamoto-City Kumamoto 860-8556 Japan l 81 96 373 5275 fax 81 96 363 9697 e-mail mfujimoto-kmmumin.ac.jp65-0215 Copyright 2015 European Society of Anaesthesiology. All rights reserwas monitored by acceleromyographic assessment of TOF responses of the adductor pollicis muscle to ulnar nerve stimulation. Patients were then divided into the increased response ED95 <0.15 mg kg1 n13 and non-increased response groups ED95 0.15 mg kg 1 n25.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Demographic data TOF ratio before rocuronium injection baseline TOF ratio concentration of anti-AChR antibodies Osserman classification and treatment for myasthenia gravis in the two groups were compared.RESULTS Stepwise logistic regression identified baseline TOF ratio and age of onset of myasthenia gravis as determinants of the increased res.
Introduction. In patients with myasthenia gravis there is autoantibody mediated destruction of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR at the neuromuscular junction of striated muscle. This results in an increased response to non-depolarising neuromuscular blocking agents NMBAs. Therefore the perioperative managementof myasthenia gravis patients poses a problem for anaesthetists due to the prolonged action of non-depolarising NMBAs that may be used intra-operatively.In several clinical trials an increased response to intermediate-acting non-depolarising NMBAs such asauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.amoto University Hospital Kumamoto-City Kumamoto Japante School of Medical Sciences Kumamoto University 1-1-1 Honjyo Cyuokuved. DOI10.1097/EJA.0000000000000257Copvecuronium cisatracurium and mivacurium has been demonstrated in patients with myasthenia gravis.15 However a wide variability in this response has also been reported and it may be the presence of certain factors that determine the increased response in some individuals with myasthenia gravis.167Similar to these intermediate-acting non-depolarising NMBAs pre-anaesthetic train-of-four ratio TOF ratio less than 0.90 increased concentration of anti-AChR antibodies .
We also aimed to investigate the variability in the response of patients with myasthenia gravis to rocuronium and to establish the determinants of any increased response to rocuronium using multivariate analysis. Methods end. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Kumamoto University Hospital Kumamoto University Hospital Kumamoto-City Kumamoto Japan protocol number 1123 Chairman Motohiro Takeya on 14 June 2010. This study was conducted according to the recommendations of the Helsinki Declaration. Prior written informed consent was obtained from all patients.Patients with myasthenia gravis scheduled for elective surgery under general anaesthesia were investigated regardless of whether they received oral medications for myasthenia gravis treatment or not. Patients with cirrhosis hepatitis cholestasis heart failure or arrhythmia renal dysfunction defined by a creatinine clearance of 30 ml min 1 or morbid obesity BMI 35 kg m 2 were excluded from the study. Patients receiving medications known to interfere with NMBAs such as antibiotics and anticonvulsants were also excluded. The patients were divided into five groups according to the Osserman classification8 based on their symptoms one day before surgery.
Oral medications for myasthenia gravis treatment were continued until the morning of surgery. After the patients were admitted to the operation room OR electrocardiogram oxygen saturation measured by pulse oximetry and noninvasive blood pressure recordings were monitored and an intravenous cannula was placed in a forearm vein for routine anaesthetic and study drug administration. After bispectral index monitoring BIS Minneapolis USA wasyright  European Society of Anaesthesiology. Uapplied general anaesthesia was induced and maintained with intravenous opioid remifentanil or fentanyl and propofol infusions. The rate of propofol infusion was adjusted using a target-controlled infusion technique TCI pump Terumo Corporation Tokyo Japan with a target concentration of 3 to 5 mg ml 1 to maintain BIS values between 40 and 60. A continuous remifentanil infusion was titrated from 0.1 to 0.5 mg kg 1 min 1 to provide optimal patient care with maintenance of blood pressure within 20% of baseline values.All neuromuscular monitoring was conducted in accordance with the guideline for the studies of NMBAs.9 Neuromuscular function was monitored with a TOFWatch SX Organon Dublin Ireland on the arm contralateral to that with the blood pressure cuff.
Stabilisation and calibration of the acceleromyograph were performed after induction of anaesthesia and before administration of rocuronium. Stimulation of the ulnar nerve 50 mA TOF with no prior tetanic stimulation was induced via surface electrodes at the wrist and was applied every 15 s for at least 10 min. When the response to TOF stimulation was stable calibration and supramaximal stimulation was ensured by the built-in calibration function CAL 2. Stable baseline responses to TOF stimulation were documented for at least 2 min before rocuronium was administered. Any effect on muscle response to repeated stimulation during stabilisation and calibration was not considered in the present study. Neuromuscular data were collected via a transducer fixed on the thumb and transferred online to a computer using the TOF-Watch SX monitoring programme version 1.2. A pre-load was applied to the thumb with a hand adapter. Rectal or oral temperature was measured as central body temperature and maintained at 358C or more.
As it is difficult to anticipate the response of individual patients to rocuronium we initially observed the response to a rocuronium dose of less than 0.10 mg kg 1. To simplify the preparation of rocuronium we decided that the initial dose of rocuronium would be 2.5 mg in patients weighing less than 50 kg 5 mg in those weighing 50 to 75 kg and 7.5 mg in those more than 75 kg. After every rocuronium injection the maximum effect defined as three consecutive equal T1 responses was observed. The incremental doses of rocuronium 2.5 to 7.5 mg according to individual body weight and twitch responses were administered repeatedly until at least 90% blockade defined as 1 - T1/baseline T1 100 wasnauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited. Eur J Anaesthesiol 2015 32672680Copyrachieved this allowed a cumulative doseresponse curve for each patient to be constructed. As rocuronium is an intermediate-acting NMBA we completed these processes within 10 min to avoid overestimation of the T1 response due to recovery from the neuromuscular blockade induced by the previously administered rocuronium.
If necessary to avoid patient movement or to maintain a good surgical field supplemental doses of rocuronium were given at the discretion of the attending anaesthesiologist.We investigated the effective dose of rocuronium required to achieve 95% neuromuscular blockade ED95 calculated from the cumulative doseresponse curve for each patient. The individual ED95 was calculated by extrapolation from linear regression analysis of the degree of blockade % on a logit scale and the respective cumulative dose of rocuronium mg kg 1 on a log scale. During general anaesthesia in patients with myasthenia gravis NMBAs are often administered in small doses to prevent prolonged neuromuscular blockade. A review article suggested that approximately 50% of the standard NMBA dose is probably adequate in patients with myasthenia gravis.10 Therefore patients with an ED95 of at least 0.15 mg kg1 which is 50% of the ED95 of rocuronium in patients without myasthenia gravis11 were classified as the increased response group whereas those with an ED95 of more than 0.15 mg kg 1 were classified as the non-increased response group. Thereafter the previously suggested determinants of the response to NMBAs were compared between these groups.
According to Mann et al.6 the expected baseline TOF ratio in the increased response group is less than 0.90 whereas that in the non-increased response group is 1.00 which is similar to that seen in patients without myasthenia gravis. Therefore the sample size was calculated to detect a decrease of 0.10 in baseline TOF ratio in the increased response group compared with the non-increased response group with a risk of type I error a 0.05 and type II error b 0.20 G Power software package version 3.1 Institut fur Experimentelle Psychologie Heinrich Heine Universitat Dusseldorf Germany. Based on our experience we hypothesised that the ratio of increased toight  European Society of Anaesthesiology. Un Eur J Anaesthesiol 2015 32672680non-increased responders would be 1  2. This meant that the sample size required for this study was at least 13 patients in the increased response group and 25 in the non-increased response group.Continuous variables were compared using the unpaired t-test. Categorical variables were compared using the chisquare test. All variables with a P value less than 0.05 on univariate analysis were entered into stepwise multivariate logistic regression analysis as potential determinants of the increased response to rocuronium.
Other statistical analyses were performed with GraphPad Prism version 5.0 for Windows GraphPad software San Diego California USA. Data are expressed as mean standard deviation SD. Results end. Forty-eight consecutive patients with myasthenia gravis were eligible for this study. In three patients T1 was completely blocked by the second rocuronium dose. They would have been part of the increased response group but were excluded because their ED95 could not be calculated. In seven patients more than 10 min were needed in order to achieve 90 to 99% T1 blockade. They would have been part of the non-increased response group but were also excluded.There were five patients who showed complete T1 blockade by the initial rocuronium dose which meant that their ED95 was certainly less than 0.10 mg kg1. These patients constituted the increased response group. Calculation of the ED95 of the remaining 33 patients showed that there were eight patients whose ED95 was less than 0.15 mg kg 1 whereas 25 patients had an ED95 of at least 0.15 mg kg 1 Fig. 1 end. Distribution of the ED95 of rocuronium is shown in Fig. 2 end. The range of the total dose of rocuronium given during the initial 10 min was 2.5 to 35 mg 0.04 to 0.56 mg kg 1.
The supplemental dose required for complete T1 blockade after this was 4.8 2.5 mg 0.08 0.04 mg kg 1 Figures 3 and 4.The patients demographic data are shown in Table 1. Age of disease onset was significantly younger in the increased response than in the non-increased response group P< 0.01. Inclusion of excluded patients did not meaningfully alter the demographic data.Baseline TOF ratio was lower in the increased response compared with the non-increased response group 0.98 0.11 vs. 1.08 0.10 P< 0.01. The concentration of anti-AChR antibodies was higher in the increased response group 101.0 143.1 nmol l 1 vs. 27.3 26.4authorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.Copnmol l 1 P 0.02. One female patient in the nonincreased response group did not have elevated antiAChR antibody levels. The number of patients with generalised muscular involvement was 12 of 13 92.3% in the increased response and 15 of 25 60.0% in the non-increased response group. There was a significant difference in the incidence of preoperative generalised muscular involvement between the two groups P 0.04.yright  European Society of Anaesthesiology. UFig end.
Cross-shaped marks show patients whose T1 response was completely blocked by the initial rocuronium dose in whom the ED95 was expected to be less than 0.10 mg kg 1 T1 the first response of train-of-four stimulation.The number of patients in each clinical severity and myasthenia gravis treatment group is shown in Table 2. No patients were categorised as Osserman classification groups 3 or 4. There were no differences in clinical severity between the increased and nonincreased response groups nor were there any differences in the treatment for myasthenia gravis in terms of the number of patients taking a cholinesterase inhibitor and the total daily dose of this drug.nauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.The range of baseline T1 responses and their relation to the effective dose of rocuronium required to achieve 95% neuromuscular blockade ED95. Cross-shaped marks show patients whose T1 response was completely blocked by the initial rocuronium dose in whom the ED95 was expected to be less than 0.10 mg kg 1.
For each 0.01 unit increaseight  European Society of Anaesthesiology. UnTable 1 Demographic dataIncreased response grouNumber of patients 13 Age years 42.4 19.3 Age of disease onset years 37.7 18.0 Sex men/women 3/10 Height cm 160.0 6.8 Weight kg 64.2 13.1 BMI kg m 2 25.0 5.0 Duration of myasthenia gravis month 51.3 131.2Data are expressed as mean standard deviation or number.Table 2 Osserman classification and treatment for myasthenia gravisIncreased response group n U 13Osserman classification Group 1  Group 2A 8 Group 2B 4 Complete remission 1 Medication for tr. eatment of myasthenia gravisNone 2 Cholinesterase inhibitora 5 Prednisolone 2 Combinationb 4 History of thymectomy 2Data are expressed as number of patients. Osserman classification Group 1  ocu respiratory impairment Group 2B  moderately severe generalised myasthenia and mo symptoms due to treatment for myasthenia gravis in the preoperative period. a Four p group received pyridostigmine. All others received ambenonium. b Combined medica response group and seven in the non-increased response group received pyridostigEur J Anaesthesiol 2015 32672680in baseline TOF ratio there was a 13% decrease in the chance of an increased response to rocuronium OR 0.87 0.77 to 0.98 P 0.02.
Oral medications for myasthenia gravis treatment were given on the morning of surgery to all patients who were taking them. At the end of surgery the fourth TOF response T4 had already reappeared in all patients. The actual TOF ratio was 0.85 0.24 80.7 21.9% of the baseline value. In our hospital all patients receive sugammadex 200 mg >2.0 mg kg 1 for the reversal of moderate neuromuscular blockade. Therefore all patients in our study received this dose of sugammadex and tracheal extubation was attempted in the OR after reaching a TOF ratio more than 90% of the baseline value Table 4.In 12 of the 13 increased response patients the TOF ratio at the end of surgery was less than 90% of the baseline value. In 10 of these 12 patients the TOF ratio rapidly increased to more than 90% of the baseline value after sugammadex injection dose range 2.0 to 3.9 mg kg 1. One of the remaining two patients received an additional 200 mg dose of sugammadex total 6.5 mg kg 1 which resulted in her TOF ratio still only increasing to 69% of the baseline value.
oup and seven in the non-increased response tion of cholinesterase inhibitor and prednisolone. Three patients in the increased mine. The others received ambenonium.Copmechanical ventilation because of insufficient respiratory recovery. Another patient also received an additional 200 mg dose of sugammadex total 5.2 mg kg 1 with an increase in his TOF ratio to only 64% of the baseline value. This patient underwent tracheal extubation in the operating room because of sufficient recovery of tidal volumes >7 ml kg 1 but required tracheal reintubation 6 h later because of respiratory failure. Neuromuscular monitoring was not used before tracheal reintubation and it was not recognised that the respiratory failure could have been due to myasthenic crisis or postoperative recurarisation.In 12 of the 25 non-increased response patients the TOF ratio at the end of surgery was less than 90% of the baseline value. These patients received sugammadex 200 mg 2.1 to 4.1 mg kg 1 which resulted in the TOF ratio rapidly increasing to more than 90% of the baseline value in nine patients. In the remaining three patients the TOF ratio increased to only 82 to 87% of the baseline value although all of them underwent successful tracheal extubation in the OR.
Discussion. The efficacy of reversal of rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex has recently been reported in patients with myasthenia gravis.1216 This may result in a greater use of rocuronium during general anaesthetic procedures for patients with myasthenia gravis. Although several case studies and case series have shown the response of patients with myasthenia gravis to rocuronium the determinants of this response inyright  European Society of Anaesthesiology. UTable 4 The train-of-four ratios following surgery and sugammadex aAt the end of surgeryIncreased response group n1390% of the baseline value n1 1.09 124%<90% of the baseline value n12 0.59 0.22 59.0Non-increased response group n2590% of the baseline value n13 1.05 0.12 99.0<90% of the baseline value n12 0.89 0.20 79.2a The detailed demographic and neuromuscular data of these patients is shown in Taindividual patients have not been investigated.12 141617 In this study the previously suggested d. eterminants of the response to other intermediate-acting NMBAs were also found at the univariate level to determine the response to rocuronium in patients with myasthenia gravis.
The present study is the first to evaluate the determinants of the response to rocuronium in patients with myasthenia gravis using multivariate analysis.Baseline TOF ratio was significantly lower in the increased response group. This methodology was based on the decremental electromyographic response to repetitive supramaximal stimulation of a peripheral nerve which is a diagnostic examination of myasthenia gravis. Mann et al.6 reported that patients with myasthenia gravis who had baseline TOF ratios less than 0.90 as measured by electromyography had a lower ED95 of atracurium compared with those with baseline TOF ratios more than 0.90. In contrast the mean baseline TOF ratio in the increased response group in the present study was 0.98. In our study however neuromuscular function was evaluated by acceleromyography. The average baseline TOF ratio in patients without myasthenia gravis was reported to be around 1.10 when neuromuscular function was evaluated by acceleromyography.18 The mean baseline TOF ratio in the increased response group in the present study was therefore almost 90% of that in the patients without myasthenia gravis in the abovementioned study.
Nilsson et al.1 reported that the ED95 of vecuronium in patients with myasthenia gravis was related to antiAChR antibody concentration. However their study only included patients with increased serum anti-AChR antibodies. It is known that approximately 10 to 20% ofnauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.dministration in comparison to baseline of the two groupsAfter sugammadex injection1.00 114%20.6% 90% of the baseline value n10 0.97 0.09 95.9 2.7% <90% of the baseline value n2a 0.59 0.17 66.7 3.2% 4.7% 1.08 0.15 101.9 8.5%9.2% 90% of the baseline value n9 1.07 0.09 97.6 4.8% <90% of the baseline value n3a 0.95 0.04 84.9 2.4%bles 5 and 6.Eur J Anaesthesiol 2015 32672680Copyrpatients with myasthenia. gravis do not demonstrate increased anti-AChR antibodies.19 Itoh et al.2 reported that the ED95 of vecuronium in patients with myasthenia gravis was not affected by anti-AChR antibody concentration. Therefore it is not always possible to predict the response to NMBAs in patients with myasthenia gravis on the basis of concentration of anti-AChR antibodies.A greater incidence of preoperative generalised muscular involvement was found in the increased response group at the univariate level in the present study.
However multivariate analysis did not indicate generalised myasthenic symptoms as being an independent determinant of the increased response to rocuronium. Instead age of disease onset was identified as one of the independent determinants. It has been reported that generalised myasthenia gravis is more common in early-onset myasthenia gravis.20 Electron microscopy studies have showed that the post-synaptic membrane remains intact in aged rats that are resistant to experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.21 This suggests some degree of age-related resistance of the neuromuscular junction to antibody-mediated attack. Young patients with myasthenia gravis may therefore have a greater reduction in neuromuscular transmission resulting in a more pronounced response to rocuronium than that seen in older patients. In addition differences in the age-related severity of clinical disease have also been reported in rats with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis22 which may be due to agerelated differences in pre-existing neuromuscular transmission properties. Hence generalised myasthenia is probably a confounding factor and age of disease onsetight  European Society of Anaesthesiology.
In the present study clinical severity according to the Osserman classification was based on the patients symptoms while on treatment and hence medications for treatment of myasthenia gravis were continued until the morning of surgery. Contrary to our expectations however we did not find any differences between the increased and nonincreased response groups in the Osserman classification or in the myasthenia gravis treatment the patients were receiving. Eisenkraft et al.23 reported that administration of cholinesterase inhibitors or steroids to patients with myasthenia gravis on the morning of surgery produced no significant differences in their response to vecuronium. We concluded that it is difficult to predict the response to rocuronium in patients with myasthenia gravis on the basis of preoperative symptoms or the treatment that they were receiving. However none of the patients in our study cohort were categorised into Osserman groups 3 or 4 and the determinants of the response to rocuronium in such patients remains unclear.We found a wide variability in the response to rocuronium of patients with myasthenia gravis.
This is the first study suggesting that it is not mandatory to reduce the dosage of rocuronium merely because theauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.om reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex was notCoppatient is diagnosed with myasthenia gravis. In nonincreased response patients administration of rocuronium in small doses will not result in appropriate neuromuscular blockade. Inadequate neuromuscular blockade is associated with certain risks such as unexpected bucking during surgery which may lead to iatrogenic trauma. In addition tracheal intubation prior to complete neuromuscular blockade is associated with a greater risk of postoperative hoarseness and vocal cord sequelae.24 Hence the dosage of rocuronium should be adjusted according to the individuals response to the drug. The distribution of responses to rocuronium in the present study was characterised by a few extreme outliers at both ends of the dose response curve. This may make the clinical relevance of our results difficult to put into clinical practice.
h myasthenia gravis who had received rocuronium. In our study there were patients whose TOF ratio did not increase to more than 90% of the baseline value in spite of administration of more than 4 mg kg 1 sugammadex at the reappearance of T4 and they required postoperative respiratory support. In patients with myasthenia gravis neuromuscular monitoring should be applied not only to monitor the onset time and the depth of neuromuscular blockade but also to determine the dosage of sugammadex. Furthermore complete reversal should be indicated by neuromuscular monitoring prior to tracheal extubation because postoperative residual neuromuscular blockade is possible even if patients have a tidal volume that seems to be normal.A TOF ratio more than 0.90 is the usual standard of the recovery from neuromuscular blockade but some patients with myasthenia gravis already demonstrate baseline TOF ratios less than 0.90 which is due to the disease itself rather than NMBAs.
neuromuscular blockade.In conclusion we investigated the determinants of the response to rocuronium in Osserman classification groupyright  European Society of Anaesthesiology. U1 and 2 patients with myasthenia gravis including those without symptoms due to complete remission following treatment. Multivariate analysis identified low baseline TOF ratio and young age of disease onset as independent determinants of the increased response to rocuronium in patients with myasthenia gravis.Acknowledgements relating to this article Assistance with the study none.Financial support and sponsorship this study was supported by Kumamoto University Hospital.Conflicts of interest none.Presentation none. Myasthenia gravis in the elderly. Article history Received 14 July 2012 Received in revised form 18 September 2012 Accepted 29 October 2012 Available online 4 December 2012. Contents lists available at SciVerse ScienceDirectJournal of the Neurological Sciencesj ourna l homepage www.e lsev ie r .com/ locate / jnsMyasthenia gravis in the elderlyMark A.
Tel. 972 3 937635E-mail address isteinercc.huji.ac.il I. Steiner.0022-510X/  see front matter  2012 Elsevier B.V. Al http//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2012.10.028a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f oArticle history Received 14 July 2012 Received in revised form 18 September 2012 Accepted 29 October 2012 Available online 4 December 2012Keywords Myasthenia gravis Therapy PrognosisObjective The objective of the study is to examine clinical therapeutic and prognostic factors of myasthenia gravis MG in the elderly. Patients and methods We reviewed all MG files of patients who attended the neuro-immunology clinic at Rabin Medical Center Petah Tikva Israel from January 1995 until September 2011 for demographic data MG presentation and course and response to treatment. Patients were classified as elderly if disease onset was above 69 years. Results Out of 137 patients with MG 29 developed MG after age 69. The 108 young onset patients had a malefemale ratio of 0.91 whereas the eighth and ninth decade onset had a significant male predominance with ratios of 2.61 and 4.51 respectively. There was no difference in the presenting symptomatology and the rate of sero-negativity in the elderly patients when compared to the early onset patients was similar.
This was associated with better response to therapy and a good prognosis. Conclusion MG onset in the elderly is not uncommon is more prevalent in males is associated with lower titer of AChR antibodies is readily responsive to therapy and carries a good prognosis. 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.1. IntroductionMyasthenia gravis MG may be present at any age with a female predominance at younger age 1 and shows a bimodal appearance for both sexes with the second peak in late onset MG 2. There is a rise in MG incidence in the last three decades that might be attributed to an increase in the diagnosis in the elderly age group 35. Thus MG of the elderly has attracted attention 1356.Various epidemiological studies have used 40 50 or 60 as a cutoff point to differentiate between young and late-onset disease 1. MG may be under-diagnosed in the elderly due to anatomical changes of the eyelids and eyes confusion with other neurological disease and lack of awareness 167. There are no clear data regarding a different response to symptomatic and immunosuppressive therapy in the elderly where innate change in the immune system is likely to change the response to therapy but no benefit has been observed in performing thymectomy for non-thymomatous late onset MG patients 8.
The role of immunosuppressive therapy in the elderly is not clear.We examinedMG in the elderly age group focusing on epidemiology presentation therapy and prognosis.abin Medical Center Beilinson 1.l rights reserved.2. Patients and methodsWe reviewed all files of patients with a diagnosis of MG who attended the neuro-immunology clinic at Rabin Medical Center Petah Tikva Israel from January 1995 until September 2011. The study was approved by the local internal review board.MG was based on history examination single fiber EMG repetitive stimulation EMG edrophonium test and antibody serology. Acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodiesweremeasured using the Acetylcholine Receptor Autoantibody RIA Kit RSR Limited United Kingdom. This assay uses 125I-labeled alpha bungarotoxin for the quantitative determination of AChR autoantibodies.Patientswere categorized into twogroups young onsetMG if disease onset was under 70 years of age and elderly onset above 70. The elderly onset group was subdivided into eighth decade-onset MG between 70 and 79 years and ninth decade-onset when over 80 years of age.Patients were classified according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification from class 1 to class 5 at onset of disease 9.
Class 2 is further subdivided into either a  predominantly limb symptomatology or b  mainly bulbar symptoms. This classification is based on the quantitative MG score for disease severity.All patients had a CT or MRI scan of the chest to exclude thymic pathology. Only those patients that had thymic tissue remnants or thymoma underwent thymectomy.Therapy was assessed using the MGFA therapy status and postintervention status classification. If treatments were used in combination in order to assess an individual treatment the net effect of the new treatment was calculated in an attempt to neutralize the effect of combination therapy. Patients were classified as either under complete stable remission under pharmacological remission or with mild moderate or severe manifestations. All patients that had reached remission and then had an exacerbation were recorded. Usage and dose of anti-cholinesterase drugs were employed to classify these patients. The results were compared statistically for disease onset below and above age 70 using the MGFA clinical classification. Statistical comparison was also performed for the two groups using the MGFA post-intervention status. The statistical method which we used throughout is the Bootstrap introduced by Brad Efron in the late 1970s.
Having this distribution permits testing hypotheses on parameters or estimation thereof.3. Results3.1. Demographics Table 1Out of 137 MG patients with MG in our cohort 108 were patients with young onset below 70 18 were diagnosed within the eighth decade and 11 developed MG during the ninth decade of life.3.1.1. Gender Of 137MGpatients 65 47%were females and 72 53%maleswith mean age at onset of 58.4 and 42.9 years respectively. The youngest patient had MG onset at 2 years and the oldest at 89. All patients were followed up in our clinic for a minimum of 1 year with over 60% followed up for at least 5 years. The average time of follow up in the under 70 onset group was 9.1 years and the over 70 group 4.3 years.Young onset patients had a malefemale ratio of 0.861 compared to MF of 2.61 in the eighth decade onset patients and 4.51 in the ninth decade. The age distribution showed a typical bimodal peak in the third and seventh decade for both males and females data not shown.3.2. Presenting symptomatology Table 1Most patients had either general limbweakness or ocular symptoms at initial presentation with fewer patients having bulbar symptoms in all three groups. Surprisingly there was no difference in the presenting symptoms between the three age groups.3.3.
Significantly more young onset patients underwent thymectomy 37/108 compared with the eighth 2/18 and ninth decade 0/11 onset patients. Two eighth decade-onset patients had thymomas. Both were females and the age of diagnosis of thymoma was 70 and 72 respectively.3.4. AChR antibodies Table 1There was no statistical difference in the percentage of patients positive for AChR antibodies in the three groups young onset73% 8th decade83% 9th decade73%. However in the older age group the titer of auto antibodies was lower and the difference had statistical significance. The average titer of AChRab was 88.7 pmol/ml in the young onset group compared to 30.8 pmol/ml and 16.5 pmol/ml in the 8th and 9th decade onset patients respectively p0.03.3.5. Treatment Table 2There was no significant difference in response to medical treatment with oral steroids between the young onset and elderly onset groups. The average dose of prednisone in the young onset group was 19.8 mg and in the elderly onset group was 10.8 mg. The lower dose used may account for the fact that no fewer steroid induced side effects were noted in this group.
IVIg and plasmapheresis when used were well tolerated with no more side effects in the elderly group. Due to a better response to first line therapies and a milder disease no patients in the elderly onset disease required rituximab cyclosporine or mycophenolate mofetil.3.6. Outcome Table 3The two groups were compared using MGFA class at disease onset. The results for disease onset below and above age 70 were compared using the CHI-SQUARE test. There was no difference in MGFA class at onset of disease. It is not recommended to use MGFA class to measure disease outcome 9. Thus the young onset group and elderly onset group were compared using the MGFA post intervention status 9. There was no statistical difference in the percentage of patients with mild or moderate disease at the end of follow up. However significantly less patients in the elderly onset group had severe diseaseat the end of follow up p0.04.
y onset disease the disease tended to be milder in this age group.4. DiscussionOur study aimed to examine feature characteristic of MG presentation course and response to therapy in the older age group and we focused on patients 70 years or older. While previous studies defined old above 60 50 or even 40 1 we selected a higher age since the concept of age has changed in recent decades people today are more active than before live longer and are better taken care of.The distribution of age of onset showed the typical bimodal appearance for both sexes with the first peak in patients with early onset disease and the second in late onset MG suggesting that our cohort is in accordance with the accepted epidemiology of MG 1012 and therefore rep. resentative.Several findings emerge from our studyIncidence. Twenty nine out of 137 patients 21% developed MG above age of 69 Table 1. This rate is in accordance with other claims 101314 and in contrast to previous studies 1314. It might reflect aging of the general population and a higher index of suspicion. Indeed a large UK study showed the presence of AChR antibodies in undiagnosed elderly patients emphasizing the need to increased alertness for this condition 15.
Indeed in a Japanese cohort the percentage of late onset disease increased from 7.3% to 16.8% from 1987 to 2006 16. Gender end. Young onset MG has a female predominance 17 while late onset MG above age 50 has a male predominance in most studies 1618 but not in others 10. The patients in our study with disease onset over seventy showed a marked male predominance especially in the ninth decade of 4.51. This finding is intriguing and varies with other immune-mediated conditions. In diseases like systemic lupus erythematosus there is a lower female predominance in the elderly compared to younger onset patients and in rheumatoid arthritis disease onset in the elderly is of equal frequency in both sexes 19. Sjogrens disease and systemic vasculitis do not show a change in gender with late onsetdisease 19. The reduced female predominance in auto-immune diseases in elderly patients might be attributed to a decreased hormonal effect on the auto-immune system with advanced age. The authenticity of this observation might also be supported by the increase in male predominance from the eighth to the ninth decade.Severity. There were claims that MG in the elderly is more severe. This is not our experience Fig. 1 end.
It was reported that bulbar symptoms 1 and ocular abnormalities 20 may be more prevalent in elderly onset MG but we found no difference in ocular bulbar or generalized disease at onset in the elderly group. It might be speculated that differences reported in other studies might be influenced by genetic factors since the same study that reports a higher prevalence of ocular symptoms in elderly patients also reports a higher rate of females in the elderly patients 20. Alternately this difference may also be attributed in part to the relatively younger age of the elderly patients >50 in these studies. Thymoma end. It is difficult to compare the incidence of thymoma in our study to other studies because the cutoff age for elderly MG in these studies is 50 years. Thus Suzuki et al. 20 report that 24% of patients above 50 years of age had thymoma while only 2/29 7% of our above 70 years old patients had thymoma. The two female patients over age 70 that had their thymoma removed in our study had markedly more mild disease a year post surgery. We emphasize that thymectomy in non-thymomatous elderly MG patients is unlikely to benefit the patients 821. AChR antibodies.
This is in accordance with other studies 122. Late onset MG has been shown to have a lower titer of AChR antibodies 23. Our study also showed a significantly lower titer of AChR antibody serum levels in the older age group and this phenomenon was also marked by a reduction in titer over age the average titer of AChRab was 88.7 pmol/ml in the young onset group compared to a lower titer of 30.8 pmol/ml and 16.5 pmol/ml in the 8th and 9th decade onset patients respectively p0.03. This might have accounted in part to the response of late-onset patients to therapy. Therapy end. It was claimed that treatment of late-onset MG is difficult. This might indeed be the case since older patients are more likely to have additional medical conditions that complicate the course they may be on medications that have an impact upon neuromuscular transmission and they may also tolerate worse the side effects of MG therapy. Despite these factors we found that patients above 70 years are good responders to conventional therapiesA Young patients at onset and end of follow up. B Elderly patients at onset and end of follow up.Table 2 and can be controlled with pyridostigmine steroids and plasmapheresis or IVIg. None of our patients requiredmore sophisticated and dangerous immune-suppressive therapies.
18 reported a good response to therapy in elderly patients treated with either azathioprine or prednisone or with both drugs combined. We also did not see any more side effects using oral steroids plasmapheresis or IVIg in this age group. We were unable to find previous studies that had focused on this aspect. Outcome end. The less severe presentation the low titer of AChR antibodies the response to therapy and the lack of side effects all contributed to the relative good outcome in our late onset patients with significantly fewer patients having severe disease at the end of follow up Table 3 Fig. 1.5 end. ConclusionMG in patients 70 years or older is not infrequent is predominantly a disorder of males that tend to have lower anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies is readily amenable to therapy and has a prognosis as good as in patients who develop the condition at a younger age.Conflict of interest and sources of funding statementThere were no funding sources for this research and there are no potential conflicts of interest for any of the authors.References1 Aarli JA. Myasthenia gravis in the elderly is it different Ann N Y Acad Sci 20081132238-43. 2 Somnier FE Keiding N Paulson OB. Epidemiology of myasthenia gravis in Denmark.
Arch Neurol 199148733-9. 3 Casetta I Groppo E Gennaro R Cesnik E Piccolo L Volpato S et al. Myasthenia gravis a changing pattern of incidence. J Neurol 20102572015-9. 4 Matsuda M Dohi-Iijima N Nakamura A Sekijima Y Morita H Matsuzawa S et al. Increase in incidence of elderly-onset patients with myasthenia gravis in Nagano Prefecture. Jpn Int Med 200544572-7. 5 Matsui N Nakane S Nakagawa Y Kondo K Mitsui T Matsumoto T et al. Increasing incidence of elderly onset patients with myasthenia gravis in a local area of Japan. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2009801168-71. 6 Kleiner-Fisman G Kott HS. Myasthenia gravis mimicking stroke in elderly patients. Mayo Clin Proc Nov. 1998731077-8. 7 Kluin KJ Bromberg MB Feldman EL Simmons Z. Dysphagia in elderly men with myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci 199613849-52. 8 Romi F Gilhus NE Varhaug JE Myking A Skeie GO Aarli JA. Thymectomy and anti-muscle autoantibodies in late-onset myasthenia gravis. Eur J Neurol 20029 55-61. 9 Jaretzki III A Barohn RJ Ernstoff RM Kaminski HJ Keesey JC Penn AS et al. Myasthenia gravis recommendations for clinical research standards. Task Force of the Medical Scientific Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. Neurology 20005516-23. 10 Robertson NP Deans J Compston DA.
J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 199865492-6. 11 Somnier FE. Increasing incidence of late-onset anti-AChR antibody-seropositive myasthenia gravis. Neurology 200565928-30. 12 Carr AS Cardwell CR McCarron PO McConville J. A systematic review of population based epidemiological studies in Myasthenia Gravis. BMC Neurol 20101046. 13 Aragons JM Bolbar I Bonfill X Bufill E Mummany A Alonso F et al. Myasthenia gravis a higher than expected incidence in the elderly. Neurology 200360 1024-6.14 Poulas K Tsibri E Kokla A Papanastasiou D Tsouloufis T Marinou M et al. Epidemiology of seropositive myasthenia gravis in Greece. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 200171352-6. 15 Vincent A Clover L Buckley C Grimley Evans J Rothwell PM. UK Myasthenia Gravis Survey. Evidence of underdiagnosis of myasthenia gravis in older people. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2003741105-8. 16 Murai H Yamashita N Watanabe M et al. Characteristics of myasthenia gravis according to onset-age Japanese nationwide survey. J Neurol Sci 201130597102. 17 Aarli JA Romi F Skeie GO Gilhus NE. Myasthenia gravis in individuals over 40. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2003998424-31. 18 Evoli A Batocchi AP Minisci C Di Schino C Tonali P. Clinical characteristics and prognosis of myasthenia gravis in older people. J Am Geriatr Soc 2000481442-8.
Systemic autoimmune diseases in elderly patients atypical presentation and association with neoplasia. Autoimmun Rev 20043376-82.20 Suzuki S Utsugisawa K Nagane Y Satoh T Kuwana M Suzuki N. Clinical and immunological differences between early and late-onset myasthenia gravis in Japan. J Neuroimmunol 2011230148-52. 21 GronsethGS BarohnRJ. Practice parameter thymectomy for autoimmunemyasthenia gravis an evidence-based review report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurology 200055715. 22 Lindstrom JM Seybold ME Lennon VA Whittingham S Duane DD. Antibody to acetylcholine receptor in myasthenia gravis. Prevalence clinical correlates and diagnostic value. Neurology 1976261054-9. 23 Limburg PC The TH Hummel-Tappel E Oosterhuis HJ. Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies in myasthenia gravis. Part 1 end. Relation to clinical parameters in 250 patients. J Neurol Sci 198358357-70. Low Vitamin D Serum Levels in a Cohort of Myasthenia Gravis Patients in Argentina. There are limited and controversial studies that address the role of vitamin D vitD a vitamin with immunomodulatory effects in myasthenia gravis MG a neuromuscular autoimmune disease.
Serum levels of 25OHD anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies and complement factor C5a were measured in MG patients n  66 and healthy volunteers HV n  25. Participants were evaluated through questionnaires to determine vitD intake and sunlight exposure. Severity scores were registered for MG patients. We found an 89.4% of MG individuals with nonsufficient levels of vitD in comparison with 68.0% in the group of HV OR  3.96 P  0.024. In addition there was an inverse correlation between 25OHD levels and one of the scores P  0.037 r  0.26 CI95  0.49 to 0.0087. However when we compared 25OHD median serum levels between MG patients and HV no statistically significant differences have been found. This is the first report of vitD status in a cohort of Argentinean MG patients where we found that patients are more likely to have nonsufficient levels of vitD compared to healthy people and that patients with more severe disease have lower levels of vitD. There are limited and controversial studies that address the role of vitamin D vitD a vitamin with immunomodulatory effects in myasthenia gravis MG a neuromuscular autoimmune disease. We aimed to assess 25-hydroxy vitamin D 25 OHD levels and to evaluate possible associations with the clinical severity and other biomarkers of the disease.
Participants were evaluated through questionnaires to determine vitD intake and sunlight exposure. Severity scores were registered for MG patients. We found an 89.4% of MG individuals with nonsufficient levels of vitD in comparison with 68.0% in the group of HV OR  3.96 P  0.024. In addition there was an inverse correlation between 25OHD levels and one of the scores P  0.037 r  0.26 CI95  0.49 to 0.0087. However when we compared 25OHD median serum levels between MG patients and HV no statistically significant differences have been found. This is the first report of vitD status in a cohort of Argentinean MG patients where we found that patients are more likely to have nonsufficient levels of vitD compared to healthy people and that patients with more severe disease have lower levels of vitD. INTRODUCTION. Myasthenia gravis MG is a prototypic antibody-mediated autoimmune disease that affects the neuromuscular junction NMJ. These autoantibodies target different components of the NMJ where the most relevant are those directed against the acetylcholine receptor AChR present in 80% of the cases 12. The remaining 20% of the patients have anti-MuSK LRP4 or agrin antibodies 3.
Regardless of the mechanism triggered they all lead to skeletal muscle weakness and fatigability which are the main clinical manifestations of the disease.Autoantibody production as well as ordinary antibody secretion depends on B cells and CD4 T cells collaboration. In normal conditions autoreactive cells proliferation is controlled at a peripheral level by regulatory T cells Treg which have been shown to be impaired in MG patients 5.Numerous data support that vitamin D vitD and its metabolites 25OHD and 125OHD have a variety of immunomodulatory effects which contribute to the establishment of an anti-inflammatory state. These effects include 1- the induction of tolerogenic dendritic cells 6 2- the inhibition of effector T cells proliferation and function 78 3- and the induction of Treg activity in the periphery 9. Regarding its effects on B cells vitD induces in vitro B cells apoptosis consequently inhibiting antibody production 10. However this effect could not be confirmed in vivo 11. Additionally vitamin D has been proven to have direct effects on muscle cells mediated by vitamin D receptors 12 moreover its deficiency has been related to muscle weakness and myalgias 1314.
Indeed vitD deficiency has shown to correlate with autoimmune activity in most of these chronic autoimmune diseases. However there is limited and conflicting data on vitD status in patients with MG 1821. First the few reports that have approached the study of this vitamin in myasthenic patients have found opposite results regarding the prevalence of deficient or insufficient levels of vitD. In addition some of these studies have been made under noncontrolled-circumstances for patients and controls regarding outdoor lifestyle and vitD intake which are known to have a direct impact on vitD levels.Although a correlation with latitude has not been observed in MG as it has been described in diseases like multiple sclerosisCorresponding author email marielaurapazgmail.com Mariela L. Paz  2021 American Society for Photobiology12223 a role of vitD in the pathogenesis of MG has been suggested. Works carried out in Korea 18 and Sweden 20 showed lower levels of vitD in MG patients compared to healthy controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS. Subjects end. Sixty-six patients with diagnosed MG from the Section of Neuroimmunology and Electrophysiology of Jos e Mar a Ramos Mej a Hospital were included in the study and twenty-five age- and sexmatched healthy volunteers HV were included as a control group.A confirmed diagnosis of MG was determined by fulfillment of one of the following criteria 1 seropositivity anti-acetylcholine receptors or antimuscle specific kinase 2 significant decrease >10% in low-frequency repetitive nerve stimulation or increas. ed jitter with single fiber electromyography 3 positive response to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.Samples were obtained from April 2017 to March 2019. All of them were equally distributed throughout the year. MG patients and HV were evaluated through questionnaires based on the OPTIFORD project 25 to determine vitD daily intake and sunlight exposure. Individuals taking vitD supplementation were excluded from the study as well as patients with other associated active autoimmune or infectious diseases pregnant women and patients who received treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin or plasma exchange within 4 weeks before the consultation.
Disease severity was evaluated using the activities of daily living ADL scale and myasthenia gravis composite MGC scale.Blood sampling and measurements. Fresh blood samples were centrifuged to obtain serum and plasma. 25OHD and AChR-abs were measured in serum whereas C5a was measured in plasma which was obtained using Futhan BD FUT-175  BD Biosciences San Jose CA as an inhibitor of the activity of proteases and components of the classical complement pathway in vitro. The samples were frozen at 20C and sent to the Department of Immunology of the School of Pharmacy and Biochemistry where they were stored at 80C.25OHD was quantified by chemiluminescence at a clinical analysis laboratory and AChR-abs titer was determined by radioimmunoprecipitation assay AChRAb RIA Kit RSR Limited Cardiff UK.Vitamin D level status was defined as follows according to patients serum 25OHD concentration sufficiency >30 ng mL 1 75 nmol L 1 insufficiency 3020 ng mL 1 7550 nmol L 1 an. d deficiency <20 ng mL 1 50 nmol L 1 2627. The cutoffs were established in accordance with the clinical practice guidelines of the US Endocrine Society Task Force on Vitamin D 28.
Briefly ELISA microplates were coated with 100 L of anti-C5a desArg antibodies 1 g mL 1 blocked with 1% phosphate-buffered saline-bovine serum albumin and incubated with plasma samples in the presence of the inhibitor 1/100 or a standard solution with known concentrations of C5a. The plates were incubated with anti-C5a desArg antibodies conjugated with biotin 0.250 g mL 1 and antibodies were detected using streptavidin-peroxidase 1/2500. Subsequently the color reaction was developed with tetramethylbenzidine and stopped with 4N H2SO4. Absorbance was read at an optical density of 450 nm and C5a levels ng mL 1 were determined using a standard calibration curve.Statistical analysis. Continuous variables were tested for normality and the results were expressed as mean SD or median range when they did or did not follow a Gaussian distribution respectively. For nonnormal variables MannWhitney test was used to compare medians. For multiple comparisons ANOVA KruskalWallis test with Dunn post-test was used. Also Spearman r correlation coefficient was determined for correlation analyses. Contingency tables were analyzed using Fishers exact test and Odds Ratio confidence interval was used to determine the strength of the association.
RESULTS end. In this study we analyzed 25OHD serum concentration in a cohort of 66 patients and 25 healthy volunteers as the control group. 60/66 were MG AChR-ab positive from the 6 MG AChR-ab negative 2/6 were MuSK-ab positive and 4/6 were seronegative for both AChR-ab and MuSK-ab. There were no statistically significant differences in age sex in the level of sunlight exposure or vitD intake between the two groups Table 1. 34/66 patients were receiving corticosteroids at the moment samples were obtained with a mean daily dose of prednisone of 20.7 mg.We found 89.4% of MG individuals with nonsufficient levels of vitD in comparison with 68.0% in the group of HV. Also when we tested their relationship a statistically significant positive association between vitD nonsufficiency and disease P  0.024 was found Fig. 1A Table 2. This association showed an Odds Ratio of 3.96 CI95 1.26 to 12.52 indicating that MG patients are almost 4 times more likely to have nonsufficient levels of vitD than the healthy population. On the other hand when comparing 25OHD median serum levels between MG patients and HV no statistically significant differences were found P  0.26 Fig. 1B end.
This correlation was not observed for MGC score Fig. 2.Additionally we grouped patients and normal controls according to the season in which samples were obtained and we did not observe any difference when comparing median 25OHD levels between both groups in each season MannWhitney test for MG vs HV in winter spring summer and autumn separately. Furthermore when analyzing 25OHD median concentration within every season in MG patients and HV separately KruskalWallis test on all seasons for MG and HV separately we did not find statistically significant differences in the group of patients as we did in the group of HV with the highest concentration during summer and the lowest levels in spring P  0.02 Fig. 3.We were also interested in evaluating correlations and associations between vitD and other parameters. Considering the role of AChR-abs in the pathogenicity of the disease and the role of C5a as an anaphylatoxin released after complement activation in the NMJ we decided to evaluate the relationship between vitD and these parameters in MG patients. Nevertheless we did not find any statistically significant correlation between vitD levels and levels of AChR-ab or C5a neither an association of these parameters with nonsufficient levels of vitD data not shown. DISCUSSION.
Previous studies reported deficient vitD levels <20 ng mL 1 in 26.8% of adult women living in Buenos Aires 29 and 64% of elderly subjects from the mid-region 3334S 30. The incidence was even higher in institutionalized adults and subjects with the absence of sun exposure or physical activity.In this study to exclude the potential effect of some lifestyle changes in patients with a chronic disease that would expose them to a higher risk of vitD deficiency we evaluated patients and controls with questionnaires to determine vitD daily intake and sunlight exposure showing no differences between groups.In the Argentinian population included in this study we could d. emonstrate a weak association between vitD levels and the severity of the disease according to ADL score where we found an inverse correlation between both parameters. Namely patients with more severe disease higher ADL score had lower vitD25OHDHV MG<30 ng mL 1 17 59 >30 ng mL 1 8 7P < 0.05 considered statistically significant.levels. Consistently with other reports 1921 we also observed a higher proportion of MG patients having nonsufficient levels of vitD compared to the control group with a high likelihood for this association.
However we could not observe a statistically significant seasonal fluctuation of vitD in MG patients in accordance with previous reports 19. We did only find the expected seasonal fluctuation in vitD serum concentration in the group of HV with the highest levels during summer and the lowest in spring.One limitation of the present study is the limited number of participants included especially in the control group. Also the group of patients belonged to a cohort of a single medical institution. On the other hand one strength of this study is that we have included questionnaires about vitD intake and sunlight exposure as abovementioned.In conclusion this is the first report of vitD status in a cohort of MG patients in Argentina where we found that patients are more likely to have nonsufficient levels of vitD compared to healthy people. We have also found that patients with more severe disease have lower levels of vitD. Further studies are needed to determine the role of vitD in the pathogenesis of MG and the possible benefits of vitD supplementation.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the University of Buenos Aires grant numbers UBACyT 20020150200007BA 2016-18 and UBACyT 20020170100283BA 2018-20 and by Roemmers Laboratories Foundation research Grant 2016-18.
STATEMENT OF ETHICS. This study was performed in line with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Approval was granted by the Bioethics Committee of the Dr. Jos e Mar a Ramos Mej a Hospital. Written informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study. CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT. The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare that are relevant to the content of this article. Eyelid ptosis enhanced after steroid pulse therapy in ocular myasthenia gravis a case report. Eyelid ptosis is a frequent symptom in myasthenia gravis and severity of ptosis fluctuates along with the disease course 1. Here we describe a patient with ocular myasthenia gravis presenting with ptosis in the contralateral side to primary affected side after edrophonium Tensilon test and steroid pulse therapy. A 39-year-old Japanese woman presented with a 3-month history of diplopia and right eyelid ptosis Fig. 1a end. Her symptoms had diurnal variation worsened in the evening and improved after rest. There were no symptoms or signs of weakness of facial neck bulbar limb or respiratory muscles. The edrophonium test disclosed improvement of the right ptosis and induced minor left ptosis Fig. 1b end.
Serum acetylcholine receptor antibodies and muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodies were both negative. Chest computed tomography was negative for thymoma. Magnetic resonance imaging of the orbits revealed no abnormalities. Ambenonium chloride 20 mg/day resulted in improvement of ptosis and diplopia. We diagnosed her illness as double-seronegative ocular myasthenia gravis. Her symptoms gradually worsened in the following 2 months. Oral prednisolone therapy 5 mg/day was started and her symptoms slightly improved. She still had a difficulty in her daily activities but refused to continue oral prednisolone therapy because concerned about adverse effect due to long-term treatment with steroid. Then she was admitted to our hospital stopped to taking oral steroid and intravenous methylprednisolone therapy 1 g/day for 3 days was commenced. After three courses of intravenous methylprednisolone therapy with 4-day intervals between the courses right eyelid ptosis satisfactorily improved however left eyelid ptosis appeared during the second course of the therapy Fig. 1c end. Left eyelid ptosis did not have diurnal variation. The edrophonium test was negative and repetitive nerve stimulation of the left orbicularis oculi showed no significant amplitude decrements.
1d end. Diplopia completely improved after the first course of the therapy and did not recur in this observation period. We consider that our patients left ptosis might have been induced by rapid improvement of right eyelid ptosis with steroid pulse therapy. Herings law of equal innervations as applied to the elevator palpebrae superioris could be a likely explanation of this phenomenon as in the case with surgical treatment-induced contralateral ptosis 2 3. Central nervous system compensates for peripheral weakness of the extraocular muscles in a patient with ocular myasthenia gravis. To keep the dominant right eyelid in the primary position an increased innervation to the right elevator muscle is needed. The same increase of innervation is provided to the non-paretic contralateral synergist of the left eyelid. Rapid improvement of right ptosis with steroid pulse therapy may unmask this central adaptation H. Nishijima  T. Ueno C end. Suzuki M end. Baba M end. Tomiyama Department of Neurology Aomori Prefectural Central Hospital 2-1-1 Higashi-tsukurimichi Aomori City Aomori 030-8553 Japan e-mail hnishijima-tkyumin.ac.jp. LETTER TO THE EDITOREyelid ptosis enhanced after steroid pulse therapy in ocular myasthenia gravis a case report.
Received 5 November 2014 / Accepted 21 January 2015Springer-Verlag Italia 2015Dear EditorEyelid ptosis is a frequent symptom in myasthenia gravis and severity of ptosis fluctuates along with the disease course 1. Here we describe a patient with ocular myasthenia gravis presenting with ptosis in the contralateral side to primary affected side after edrophonium Tensilon test and steroid pulse therapy.A 39-year-old Japanese woman presented with a 3-month history of diplopia and right eyelid ptosis Fig. 1a end. Her symptoms had diurnal variation worsened in the evening and improved after rest. There were no symptoms or signs of weakness of facial neck bulbar limb or respiratory muscles. The edrophonium test disclosed improvement of the right ptosis and induced minor left ptosis Fig. 1b end. Repetitive nerve stimulation of the deltoid muscles and abductor digiti minimi muscles showed no significant amplitude decrements. Serum acetylcholine receptor antibodies and muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodies were both negative. Chest computed tomography was negative for thymoma. Magnetic resonance imaging of the orbits revealed no abnormalities. Ambenonium chloride 20 mg/day resulted in improvement of ptosis and diplopia.
Hersymptoms gradually worsened in the following 2 months. Oral prednisolone therapy 5 mg/day was started and her symptoms slightly improved. She still had a difficulty in her daily activities but refused to continue oral prednisolone therapy because concerned about adverse effect due to long-term treatment with steroid. Then she was admitted to our hospital stopped to taking oral steroid and intravenous methylprednisolone therapy 1 g/day for 3 days was commenced. After three courses of intravenous methylprednisolone therapy with 4-day intervals between the courses right eyelid ptosis satisfactorily improved however left eyelid ptosis appeared during the second course of the therapy Fig. 1c end. Left eyelid ptosis did not have diurnal variation. The edrophonium test was negative and repetitive nerve stimulation of the left orbicularis oculi showed no significant amplitude decrements. After 1-month observation without additional immunosuppressive treatment left ptosis completely disappeared Fig. 1d end. Diplopia completely improved after the first course of the therapy and did not recur in this observation period.We consider that our patients left ptosis might have been induced by rapid improvement of right eyelid ptosis with steroid pulse therapy.
Central nervous system compensates for peripheral weakness of the extraocular muscles in a patient with ocular myasthenia gravis. To keep the dominant right eyelid in the primary position an increased innervation to the right elevator muscle is needed. The same increase of innervation is provided to the non-paretic contralateral synergist of the left eyelid. Rapid improvement of right ptosis with steroid pulse therapy may unmask this central adaptation H. Nishijima  T. Ueno C end. Suzuki M end. Baba M end. Tomiyama Department of Neurology Aomori Prefectural Central Hospital 2-1-1 Higashi-tsukurimichi Aomori City Aomori 030-8553 Japan e-mail hnishijima-tkyumin.ac.jp H. Nishijima T. Ueno M end. Tomiyama Department of Neurophysiology Institute of Brain Science Hirosaki University Graduate School of Medicine Hirosaki City Aomori JapanDOI 10.1007/s10072-015-2093-5that is induce decrement of these innervations which results in relatively hypo-innervation to left eyelid elevator 4 5.Enhanced ptosis contralateral to the primary affected side after steroid therapy in a patient with myasthenia gravis was rarely reported. Steroid pulse therapy is not common in treatment of myasthenia gravis considering well-known frequent complication initial exacerbation.
Central adaptation may be lost after gradual recovery which could explain the absence of a similar phenomenon in a treatment with oral steroid therapy.Conflict of interest We have no financial support or relationships that may pose conflict of interest. Use of rocuronium and sugammadex for caesarean delivery in a patient with myasthenia gravis. neuraminidase activity in the brain and is highly sensitive as it is not usually detected in bodily fluids other than CSF perilymph and aqueous humour. The test is relatively time-consuming and labour-intensive. The latter is a protein synthesised mainly in the choroid plexus and leptomeninges. The CSF concentration is 3587 times higher than plasma with a value above 2 mg/mL highly suggestive of CSF. The test is faster and more sensitive than that for beta-2-transferrin. Although the incidence has not been quantified CSF leaks are observed after unintentional dural puncture with an epidural needle and after CSE techniques. The natural history of such leaks is unknown and a variety of management options have been proposed.
Detection of these proteins at certain concentrations has high sensitivity and specificity. It is recommended that the sample of approximately 0.5 mL is refrigerated if analysis is likely to be delayed stability is short-lived at room temperature. If CSF is detected the patient should be reassured that as far as is known the majority of leaks settle without complication and that intervention to stop the leak may not be required. Inpatient care and monitoring is probably wise until the leak has stopped. We suggest that persistent loss warrants consultation with a neuroor spinal surgeon depending on local arrangements and consideration of an epidural blood patch if PDPH is present. available within a few hours. The former is produced by neuraminidase activity in the brain and is highly sensitive as it is not usually detected in bodily fluids other than CSF perilymph and aqueous humour. The test is relatively time-consuming and labour-intensive.5 The latter is a protein synthesised mainly in the choroid plexus and leptomeninges.
The natural history of such leaks is unknown and a variety of management options have been proposed. We suggest confirming the diagnosis especially if the patient is symptomatic the volume of loss is substantial or the leak persists by collecting a fluid sample for either beta-2 transferrin or beta-trace protein depending on local laboratory resources. Detection of these proteins at certain concentrations has high sensitivity and specificity.5 It is recommended that the sample of approximately 0.5 mL is refrigerated if analysis is likely to be delayed stability is short-lived at room temperature. If CSF is detected the patient should be reassured that as far as is known the majority of leaks settle without complication and that intervention to stop the leak may not be required. Inpatient care and monitoring is probably wise until the leak has stopped. We suggest that persistent loss warrants consultation with a neuro- or spinal surgeon depending on local arrangements and consideration of an epidural blood patch if PDPH is present.J.O.M. Plumb Department of Anaesthesia and PainDunedin HospitalDunedin New ZealandE-mail address jamieplumbdoctors.org.ukD.M. Levy Department of AnaesthesiaNottingham University HospitalsNottingham UKJ.P. Holborow M.J.
Can tacrolimus replace ciclosporin and prednisone to treat myasthenia gravis. BACKGROUND The immunosuppressive agents ciclosporin and prednisone are both established treatments for the autoimmune neuromuscular disease myasthenia gravis but their longterm use can result in serious side effects. Furthermore some patients are refractory to these medications. The MACROLIDE immunosuppressant tacrolimus which acts by inhibiting T-lymphocyte activation has been reported to treat myasthenia gravis successfully however the long-term results of tacrolimus treatment in myasthenia gravis patients who are dependent on ciclosporin and prednisone remain to be determined. 14 NATURE CLINICAL PRACTICE NEUROLOGY NOVEMBER 2005 VOL 1 NO 1Original article Ponseti JM et al. 2005 Long-term results of tacrolimus in cyclosporine- and prednisone-dependent myasthenia gravis. Neurology 64 16411643SYNOPSIS KEYWORDS azathioprine ciclosporin myasthenia gravis prednisone tacrolimus. BACKGROUND. The immunosuppressive agents ciclosporin and prednisone are both established treatments for the autoimmune neuromuscular disease myasthenia gravis but their longterm use can result in serious side effects. Furthermore some patients are refractory to these medications.
OBJECTIVE. To assess the long-term clinical efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis patients dependent on ciclosporin and prednisone who are experiencing adverse effects from long-term use of these medications. DESIGN AND INTERVENTION. This prospective open-label study enrolled 89 patients with myasthenia gravis who had undergone thymectomy within the previous 3 years and who were receiving high doses of prednisone and ciclosporin that could not be reduced. All patients showed adverse effects from long-term use of these medications. Ciclosporin was replaced with tacrolimus at an initial dose of 0.1 mg/kg/day twice daily this was adjusted until the plasma drug concentration was 78 ng/ml. A baseline assessment was followed by assessments at 3 7 and 15 days 1 2 and 3 months and every 3 months subsequently. The mean follow-up. Can tacrolimus replace ciclosporin and. prednisone to treat myasthenia gravisperiod was 2.5  0.8 years.
OUTCOME MEASURES. Efficacy was measured in terms of clinical state muscle strength and serum anti-AChR antibody levels. Other outcomes included duration of successful treatment with tacrolimus and degree of prednisone dose reduction. Adverse events were monitored. RESULTS end. Of the 79 patients who completed the study 96% were treated successfully with tacrolimus for more than 1 year n  76 this figure decreased to 95% n  75 at 2 years and 92% n  73 after 3 years. A significant increase in muscle strength was observed P <0.0001 and a mean increase of 39% was recorded at the close of the study. At the final followup visit there was a significant decrease in the mean concentration of serum anti-AChR antibodies P <0.0001. In addition 88.6% of patients demonstrated pharmacological remission 6.4% had minimal symptoms and 5.1% were in complete stable remission. Prednisone doses were reduced and ultimately withdrawn in 98% of patients and the proportion of patients with adverse effects related to ciclosporin and prednisone decreased from a baseline value of 96.2% to 35.4% at the final follow-up visit P <0.001. CONCLUSION. Tacrolimus is an effective long-term immunosuppressive medication for myasthenia gravis. It is well tolerated and produces no adverse effects. GLOSSARY end. end.
Broad-spectrum antibiotic with a complex macrocyclic structure. TEMS end. A test to evaluate muscle strength. QMG end. Quantitative myasthenia gravis. MGFA end. Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Americancpneuro2005028.indd 14 6/10/05 124344 pmNature Publishing Group 2005NOVEMBER 2005 VOL 1 NO 1 NATURE CLINICAL PRACTICE NEUROLOGY 15Acknowledgments The synopsis was written by Christine Kyme Assistant Editor Nature Clinical Practice.Competing interests The author declared he has no competing interests.Correspondence Department of Clinical Neurology Radcliffe Infirmary Oxford OX2 6HE UK john.newsomdavis btinternet.comReceived 1 July 2005 Accepted 16 August 20. 05 www.nature.com/clinicalpractice doi10.1038/ncpneuro0038COMMENTARY. John Newsom-Davis. Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease that is mediated by antibodies to AChRs in the majority of patients and to muscle-specific kinase in many of the remainder. Symptoms are sometimes adequately controlled by cholinesterase inhibitors with or without thymectomy but a substantial proportion of patients remain with significant disability. Many open-label studies have documented the response to corticosteroids given alone or combined with other immuno suppressive medications such as azathioprine ciclosporin or mycophenolate mofetil.
There is unquestionably a need for other immunosuppressive agents to be evaluated in this disorder.Ponseti et al. report the outcome of a long-term open-label study of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis patients who were thymectomized at least 3 years prior to the study 16% had a thymoma who had failed to respond to high-dose prednisone combined with ciclosporin and who were much troubled by adverse effects. Remarkably in the 79 patients who completed the study follow-up 0.133.72 years mean 2.5 years complete stable remission was achieved in 5% and pharmaco logical remission in 87% implying that cholinesterase inhibitors had been withdrawn although this is not specifically stated moreover prednisone was withdrawn in 77 of these 79 patients by the end of the study. We are not told how many patients were seronegative for AChR antibody at entry but at final follow-up the mean titer had fallen substantially.An important observation was that tacrolimus although it is a calcineurin-inhibitor like ciclosporin was much better tolerated drug withdrawal was necessary in only five patients.The adverse effects associated with previous ciclosporin therapy were substantially reduced in the tacrolimus study expressed as the number occurring per patient although the rang.
An additional advantage is that tacrolimus acts much more quickly than some other agents e.g. azathioprine typically within 2 weeks.The results need to be considered in the context of another recent open-label study of tacrolimus in a smaller group of patients who were studied for 1.52 years by Konishi et al.3 The outcome of this trial was not as good as that reported by the current studyprednisolone reduction was possible in only 7 out of 12 patients and in none could it be fully withdrawn. This might have been owing to the lower dose used in the Konishi study 2.54 mg/day compared with the mean 3.6  1.9 mg/day in the current study where plasma concentrations of 78 ng/ml were achieved. Despite the apparently lower dose in the Konishi study however the frequency of adverse effects seems actually to have been twice as high mean 1.8 per patient compared with 0.8 in the Ponseti study. Higher doses might also be expected to lead to a greater incidence of long-term adverse effects.As Ponseti et al. imply what is now needed is a randomized blinded controlled study of tacrolimus to validate their potentially interesting findings. J Newsom-Davis is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Clinical Neurology University.
The Effect of Combined Therapy with Immunoadsorption and High-Dose Intravenous Methylprednisolone on Myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease mediated by antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor of skeletal muscle antiAChR Ab 1 2. Although the efficacy of plasmapheresis on MG had been reported only in a relatively small-scale controlled study for severe cases of MG 3 a significant reduction in serum anti-AChR Ab titer following plasmapheresis has been considered to be related to the efficacy of treatment 49. However the effect of plasmapheresis on clinical symptoms of MG did not continue and the serum anti-AChR Ab titer increased relatively soon within 1 month after treatment 4 7. In other reports addition of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy HMP immediately after plasmapheresis might have prevented the early phase deterioration in case studies with MG 10 11. Recently particularly in Japan the immunoadsorption method IA has been the preferred treatment for MG because of a lower rate of serum albumin loss and side effects to the circulating system and because the effect is almost identical to plasma exchange or the double-filtration method 12.
Informed consent was obtained from all the patients. Statistical analysis was performed using the unpaired t test. Backgrounds of the MG patients studied are shown in table 1. Thirty-four patients were consecutively enrolled into the study. Initially they were randomly allocated to receive IA  HMP or IA alone. However as the patients receiving IA alone 12 cases did not suffi-. Short Reports 115Eur Neurol 200248115117The Effect of Combined Therapy with Immunoadsorption and High-Dose Intravenous Methylprednisolone on Myasthenia gravis Reiko Munakata a Kimiaki Utsugisawab Yuriko Nagane b Munehisa Yamagatab Miyuki Oikawab Daiji Obarab Hideo Tohgiba Iwate Prefectural Daito Hospital Daitoucho and bDepartment of Neurology Iwate Medical University Morioka JapanMyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease mediated by antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor of skeletal muscle. antiAChR Ab 1 2. Although the efficacy of plasmapheresis on MG had been reported only in a relatively small-scale controlled study for severe cases of MG 3 a significant reduction in serum anti-AChR Ab titer following plasmapheresis has been considered to be related to the efficacy of treatment 49.
In other reports addition of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy HMP immediately after plasmapheresis might have prevented the early phase deterioration in case studies with MG 10 11. Recently particularly in Japan the immunoadsorption method IA has been the preferred treatment for MG because of a lower rate of serum albumin loss and side effects to the circulating system and because the effect is almost identical to plasma exchange or the double-filtration method 12. We compared short- 1 month after each treatment and long-term serial treatments during 521240 days effects of combination therapy with IA and HMP IA  HMP and treatment with IA alone on clinical severity titer of anti-AChR Ab and dose of oral prednisolone PSL needed for normal life in 29 patients with MG. Informed consent was obtained from all the patients. Statistical analysis was performed using the unpaired t test.Backgrounds of the MG patients studied are shown in table 1. Thirty-four patients were consecutively enrolled into the study. Initially they were randomly allocated to receive IA  HMP or IA alone.
Five of such cases in whom other therapies were required within 1 month after the first treatment with IA alone were excluded from the study. Thus the final analysis was performed for 22 cases of IA  HMP total observation period 1551324 days and 7 cases of IA alone 33202 days. These patients had received medications of 10 40 mg/day of PSL together with 60 or 120 mg of pyridostigmine bromide/day before receiving IA. IA was performed using a plasma separator OP-08 Asahi Medical Tokyo Japan and an adsorption column TR-350 Asahi Medical through which 2000 ml of plasma separated from the patients blood passed 8 12. In the TR-350 col-D ownl oade dby N orris Med ical Lib rary68 .181 .176 .15 -4/ 7/20 147 33 47A MShort Reports 117umn a tryptophan-linked affinity immunoadsorbent semiselectively removes anti-AChR Ab. HMP was performed by serial intravenous injection of 1.0 g methylprednisolone/100 ml saline immediately after IA and on the mornings of the following 2 days. Clinical severity was strictly scored by the patients and the participating medical staff not blinded to the treatment according to the methods of Schumm et al. 14 and Besinger et al. 15 excluding measurements of vital capacity for ocular symptoms and generalized symptoms respectively.
The mean anti-AChR Ab ratio was significantly lower in the IA  HMP than IA alone groups at 1 month p  0.01 after each treatment table 2. Both the severity and antiAChR Ab ratios increased within 1 month after IA alone which was consistent with a previous report 4. These findings suggest that IA  HMP produce more immediate effects on MG for up to 1 month compared with IA alone. The mean PSL dose ratio did not differ between the IA  HMP and IA alone groups at least within 1 month table 2.After the total observation period both the severity and antiAChR Ab ratios were significantly lower in patients receiving IA  HMP than in patients receiving IA alone 0.29 B 0.31 vs. 0.72 B 0.32 and 0.38 B 0.27 vs. 0.70 B 0.23 respectively p  0.01 table 2. Although the total observation period was longer for the patients receiving IA  HMP than IA alone table 2 no significant correlation was observed with severity r  0.20 p  0.48 anti-AChR Ab r  0.22 p  0.42 and PSL dose ratios r  0.09 p  0.77. These results indicate that IA  HMP for a longer interval mean 151 days is more effective than IA alone for a shorter interval mean 29 days.
In contrast 4 of the present patients receiving IA  HMP demonstrated remission no symptom with no medication for more than 1 year. Therefore combined therapy with IA  HMP appears more effective than IA alone or in all likelihood HMP alone. Furthermore the PSL dose ratio was significantly lower in patients receiving IA  HMP than in patients receiving IA alone 0.58 B 0.29 vs. 1.03 B 0.61 p  0.01 after the total observation period table 2 suggesting that IA  HMP treatment may allow for a reduced dose of oral PSL per day for normal life in MG patients. As the combined therapy with IA  HMP exhibits no serious complications it can be used not only to overcome acute deterioration as plasma exchange but also to reduce the dose of oral PSL and aim at remission. The anti-AChR Ab ratio together with clinical severity can be an indicator for the therapeutic response to IA or IA  HMP for individual patients.In conclusion the combined therapy with IA and HMP appears to be more effective for the treatment of MG compared with IA alone although further studies are needed to compare the effect of IA  HMP and HMP alone. Acknowledgments. This study was supported in part by the Ministry of EducationCulture Sports Science and Technology Japan.
Methods Patients with acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive class II-IVa MG MG Foundation of America MGFA criteria taking corticosteroids for at least 4 weeks were randomized to MMF 2 g/day or placebo for 36 weeks. The primary endpoint was a composite measure defined as achievement of minimal manifestations or pharmacologic remission MGFA post-intervention status with reduction of corticosteroid dose on a set schedule. Secondary endpoints included disease severity quality-of-life scores and safety. D.B end. Sanders MD I.K. Hart FRCP R. Mantegazza MD S.S. Shukla MD Z.A. Siddiqi MD PhD M.H.V. De Baets MD A. Melms MD M.W. Nicolle MDDPhil N. Solomons MD D.P. Richman MDBackground This prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled phase III trial assessed the efficacy safety and tolerability of mycophenolate mofetil MMF as a steroid-sparing agent in patients with myasthenia gravis MG.Methods Patients with acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive class II-IVa MG MG Foundation of America MGFA criteria taking corticosteroids for at least 4 weeks were randomized to MMF 2 g/day or placebo for 36 weeks.
Secondary endpoints included disease severity quality-of-life scores and safety.Results A total of 44% of MMF-treated n 88 and 39% of placebo-receiving n 88 patients achieved the primary endpoint p 0.541. Improvements in mean quantitative MG MG activities of daily living and 36-item Short-Form health survey scores were similar in both groups. Numbers of adverse events were similar in both groups. The most commonly reported adverse events in the MMF-treated group were headache 12.5% and worsening of MG 11.4% and in the placebo group worsening of MG 20.5% and diarrhea 10.2%.Conclusions Initiation of mycophenolate mofetil MMF treatment was not superior to placebo in maintaining myasthenia gravis MG control during a 36-week schedule of prednisone tapering. There were no significant differences in the primary or secondary endpoints between the study groups. MMF was well tolerated and adverse events were consistent with previous studies. Experience from this large international multicenter phase III study employing full MG Foundation of America guidelines will aid the design of future MG studies. Neurology 200871400406. GLOSSARY end.
The use of corticosteroids and immunosuppressants such as azathioprine has transformed MG management.1 However many patients do not tolerate or respond sufficiently to these drugs.2 In addition corticosteroidsthe main current therapy for generalized MG3e-Pub ahead of print on April 23 2008 at www.neurology.org. From the Division of Neurology D.B.S. Duke University Medical Center Durham NC University Division of Neuroscience I.K.H. The Walton Centre for Neurology and Neurosurgery Liverpool UK Department of Neuromuscular Diseases R.M. Carlo Besta Neurological Institute Foundation Milan Italy Aspreva Pharmaceuticals Inc. S.S.S. Basking Ridge NJ Division of Neurology/Department of Medicine Z.A.S. University of Alberta Edmonton AB Canada Department of Neurology M.H.V.D.B. Academical Hospital Maastricht The Netherlands Neurologische Universitatsklinik A.M. Eberhard-Karls-Universitat Tubingen Germany University Hospital LHSC M.W.N. University of Western Ontario London ON Canada Aspreva Pharmaceuticals Corp. N.S. Victoria BC Canada and Department of Neurology and the Center for Neuroscience D.P.R. University of California Davis. Sponsored by F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd./Inc./AG as part of the Aspreva Pharmaceuticals Corp. Rare Disease Program. Disclosures Dr.
He is on the speakers program for Athena Diagnostics and has received research support through his institution from Roche Laboratories and Aspreva Pharmaceuticals. Drs end. De Baets and Hart have received grants from F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd./Inc./AG as part of the Aspreva Pharmaceuticals Corp. Rare Disease Program. Drs end. Mantegazza Melms and Richman have received honoraria from F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd./Inc./AG as part of the Aspreva Pharmaceuticals Corp. Rare Disease Program. Drs end. Shukla and Solomons are employees of Aspreva Pharmaceuticals. Drs end. Nicolle and Siddiqi have nothing to disclose.Supplemental data at www.neurology.orgAddress correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Donald B end. Sanders Box 3403 Duke University Medical Center Duke University Durham NC 27710 Donald.SandersDuke.eduEditorial page 390See also page 394400 Copyright  2008 by AAN Enterprises Inc.have formidable side effects.
ational large randomized controlled trial of MMFor of any other immunosuppressive drughas been performed in MG.2021Here we report the results of a phase III trial designed to study the efficacy and safety of MMF as a steroid-sparing adjunct in patients with mild-to-moderate generalized AChR antibody-positive MG. We also discuss methodologic and practical issues arising from one of the largest ever therapeutic trials in MG and implications for future studies.METHODS This prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled parallel-group international multicenter 36-week trial assessed the efficacy and safety of adjunct MMF CellCept Roche Pharma AG Grenzach-Wyhlen Germany in improving disease control while reducing corticosteroid dose in patients with MG. The study ran from August 2004 to October 2006. Initially patients were recruited at 25 neurology centers in the United States Canada United Kingdom Germany and The Netherlands. In 2005 a further 18 centers in Ukraine Israel Spain India Italy France Russia Serbia and Montenegro and Mexico were added because of difficulties in recruiting. All patients gave written informed consent to participate in the study which was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and the principles of Good Clinical Practice.Patients.
Full details of the inclusion and exclusion criteria are in the e-appendix on the Neurology Web site at www.neurology.org.Objectives and outcome measures. The overall objectives were to assess the efficacy good disease control with steroid sparing safety and tolerability of MMF compared with placebo in patients with MG receiving prednisone. A novel composite primary endpoint was developed to be meaningful to clinical practice and included outcome measures recommended by the MGFA Task Force on clinical research standards in MG.22 Patients were defined as having a treatment response if they met all three efficacy criteria 1 MGFA post-intervention status of minimal manifestations MM or pharmacologic remission PR22for weeks 3236 2 7.5 mg/day or alternate day equivalent prednisone for weeks 3236 and 3 120 mg/day pyridostigmine for weeks. 3336 end. The last criterion ensured that higher doses of pyridostigmine could not mask continuing marked MG weakness.
4 prednisone dose at study termination 5 cholinesterase inhibitor dose at study termination 6 number of IV immunoglobulin and plasma exchange treatments received during the study 7 change from baseline in quantitative MG score QMGS2223 8 change from baseline in quality of life QoL assessed using the Short-Form 36 SF-36 health survey and the MG Activities of Daily Living MG-ADL scale24 9 change from baseline in investigator and patient Global Assessment of disease severity and 10 AChR antibody ti. ters end. Patients also completed a healthcare utilization questionnaire.Safety was assessed by the incidence severity and relation of adverse events to treatment probable possible or unknown and the incidence of serious adverse events and adverse events leading to study withdrawal.Treatments. The protocol included schedules to taper prednisone and any cholinesterase inhibitor treatment to a minimum level.Investigational drug. Randomized patients received prednisone or if unavailable prednisolone plus either oral MMF 2 g/day or matching placebo tablets for 36 weeks. Two 500-mg tablets of trial medication were taken morning and evening on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
From week 2 the prednisone dose was tapered at each visit when patients had achieved MM or PR with the target of reaching a prednisone dose of 7.5 mg/day by week 24 see appendix e-1. Patients were withdrawn from the study if prednisone could not be reduced below the baseline dose by week 16. These withdrawn patients were deemed nonresponders for all analyses.Tapering of cholinesterase inhibitor. Patients taking cholinesterase inhibitors must have been on a stable regimen for 2 weeks before study entry. This dose was maintained until patients achieved MM and the dose of prednisone was reduced to 7.5 mg/day. Thereafter the cholinesterase inhibitor dose was reduced to 120 mg/day over 17 days.Randomization and blinding. Randomization was performed by a central computerized interactive voice response system. Each patient was assigned a randomization number and corresponding bottles of investigational drug or placebo. All study personnel and patients were blinded to the study medication and the randomization code key set was not available at the study center or to the study monitors project statisticians or study sponsor.
MM and PR were assessed by site personnel at weeks 2 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 and 36. The QMGSNeurology 71 August 5 2008 401MG-ADL SF-36 and Global Assessment were performed at baseline and weeks 2 12 24 and 36. Serum AChR antibody titers were measured at screening baseline and weeks 12 24 and 36.Safety was evaluated by clinical assessment electrocardiograms hematology and blood chemistry and vital signs at screening baseline and weeks 2 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 and 36.Statistical analysis. Available data2121417 and a survey of MG specialists led to the prediction that 35% of patients in the placebo group and at least 65% in the MMF group would reach treatment response. Power calculations using the two-sided Fisher exact test with a significance level of 0.05 determined that 136 patients68 in each treatment armwould provide 92% power to detect a 30% difference in treatment response rate between study groups. Efficacy analyses were performed using the intention-to-treat ITT population.
Patients who did not continue to week 36 were considered nonresponders. Logistic regression analysis was performed to adjust for covariate factors potentially prognostic of outcome age at MG onset  40 years and 40 years disease duration sex previous thymectomy and the interactions of treatment with these factors.For all secondary efficacy endpoints descriptive analyses were performed by assessment at each visit and at study termination and included calculation of 95% confidence limits for means and difference between means. If a patient was evaluatedat early termination analyses included the observed cases no imputation missing data were imputed using the last observation carried forward method for the week 36 visit.Time to the defined treatment response was summarized using the Kaplan-Meier analysis. Mean prednisone and cholinesterase inhibitor doses were calculated for the total study duration weeks 036 and by interval weeks 02 24 48 812 1216 1620 2024 2428 2832 and 3236.
Missing safety data were not imputed.RESULTS Patients. Of the 176 patients enrolled 88 50% were randomized to the MMF group and 88 50% to placebo. A total of 144 patients 81.8% completed the study 73 83.0% in the MMF and 71 80.7% in the placebo group figure 1.There were no substantial differences in patient demographics or disease characteristics between the two treatment groups at baseline table 1. ExposureFigure 1 Patient flow and reasons for withdrawal throughout the studyAssessed for eligibility n  233Randomized n  176MMF 2.0 g/d n  88Placebo n  88Completed study n  73 83.0%Completed study n  71 80.7%Reasons for withdrawal  Other adverse avents n  3  Death n  1  Could not reduce prednisone dose n  1  Received 2 IVIg or PE treatments n  1  Patients decision n  5  Other n  4Reasons for withdrawal  Serious infection n  1  Other adverse avents n  4  Death n  1  Could not reduce prednisone d. ose n  6  Received 2 IVIg or PE treatments n  2  Other n  3All patients who were randomized received the allocated intervention and were included in the intention-to-treat analysis of efficacy. IVIg IV immunoglobulin MMF mycophenolate mofetil PE plasma exchange.Not further subclassified.
MG myasthenia gravis MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America.402 Neurology 71 August 5 2008to study drug after randomization analyzed to assess compliance was similar in the MMF group treatment duration 229.7 71.9 days mean daily dose 1.97 0.1 g/day and the placebo group 236.0 48.2 days 1.97 0.2 g/day.Responses to treatment. Both MMF and placebo groups responded to treatment. There were how-ever no significant differences in any of the primary or secondary measures of response between the two groups. The primary endpoint of treatment response was achieved by 39 patients 44.3% in the MMF group compared with 34 patients 38.6% in the placebo group p 0.541 ITT population. On regression analyses this outcome was unaffected by sex age at disease onset duration of MG previous thymectomy or center effects. The reasons why patients failed to achieve treatment response are given in table 2. Results across the two treatment groups for the secondary endpoints of QMGS figure 2 ADL figure e-1 and investigator and patient global assessments figure e-2 are summarized in table 3. All were similar and consistent with those obtained for the primary endpoint.Reductions in prednisone and cholinesterase inhibitor doses.
The mean prednisone dose in the MMF group decreased from 30.7 12.6 mg/ day during weeks 02 to 10.1 6.2 mg/day during weeks 3236 and in the placebo group from 34.1 15.0 mg/day during weeks 02 to 11.6 9.5 mg/ day during weeks 3236 figure e-3A. The mean cholinesterase inhibitor dose in the MMF group decreased from 214.9 147.7 mg/day during weeks 02 to 142.1 140.9 mg/day during weeks 3236 and in the placebo group from 237.2 167.2 mg/ day during weeks 02 to 168.0 143.5 mg/day during weeks 3236 figure e-3B. The reductions in mean prednisone dose were also seen in total cumulative dose results as determined by the prednisone AUC for both treatment groups cumulative prednisone dose decreased in the MMF group from 1974.6 944.9 mg during weeks 012 to 856.6 472.9 mg during weeks 2436 and in the placebo group from 2283.2 1010.0 mg during weeks 012 to 968.1 656.8 mg during weeks 2436 figure e-4.AChR antibody titers. Mean AChR antibody titers were similar at baseline in the MMF 3.5 3.5 nmol/L and placebo 3.1 3.9 nmol/L groups. These titers fell over time in both the MMF endpoint 2.6 4.1 nmol/L and placebo endpoint 2.8 4.3 nmol/L groups figure e-5.Safety. Seventy-one patients 80.7% in the MMF group and 74 patients 84.1% in the placebo group had at least one adverse event during the study.
The number of withdrawals ow-mycophenolate mofetil MMF and placebo groups1816128101464020 12 24 36WeekM ean tota l QM GS  SDEndpointMMFPlacebon  88n  88n  79n  86n  78n  77 n  73 n  84n  88 n  71The endpoint includes the week 36 and early termination visits. Early termination analyses included the observed cases no imputation and missing data imputed using the last observation carried forward method for the week 36 visit.Neurology 71 August 5 2008 403ing to adverse events was low and similar in both treatment groups 3 patients 3.4% in the MMF group 1 lymphopenia 1 diarrhea nausea and vomiting 1 chronic bronchitis and 4 4.5% in the placebo group 2 worsening of MG 2 increased hepatic enzyme levels.Serious adverse events occurred in 19 patients 21.6% i. n the MMF group and 14 15.9% in the placebo group table 4. Serious infections were more frequent with MMF 7 patients 8.0% than placebo 3 patients 3.4%.
Two deaths were considered unrelated to study medication hemorrhagic fever occurring after study completion MMF and alcohol intoxication placebo. The other deathfrom pneumonia in the MMF groupwas considered possibly related to treatment.Healthcare utilization. Healthcare utilization was similar between the two treatment groups. The 11 patients 12.5% in the MMF group who requiredhospitalization had a mean stay of 9.7 10.6 days with 5.1 11.5 days spent in intensive or critical care units. The 9 patients 10.2% in the placebo group who required hospitalization had a mean stay of 19.0 12.4 days with 3.7 7.0 days spent in intensive or critical care units.DISCUSSION Patients in the MMF group showed similar improvements to those in the placebo group on all efficacy measures examined. Although at first sight some data on softer endpoints such as prednisone dose reduction decline in AChR antibody titers and mean length of hospitalization seemed to suggest potential benefits of MMF over placebo these differences were not significant.
Values are n %. Patients could have experienced 1 serious adverse event.404 Neurology 71 August 5 2008tradicting evidence from smaller less rigorous studies and the reported experience of many clinicians.6-19 Several factors could account for this incongruity.Treatment response was achieved by only 44% of patients in the MMF group which is strikingly lower than the 7075% response rate reported in a review of the use of MMF in MG.2 One reason for the low response rate may be that our definition of treatment resp. onse was so rigorous that it masked lesser but clinically useful improvements.The initiation of the steroid taper as early as 2 weeks in patients who had achieved MM or PR by that time may have been too early for a clinical effect of MMF to become apparent. Also the study period of 36 weeks may have been too short particularly as the proportion of patients who responded increased with duration of treatment and did not appear to have reached a plateau at week 36 in either group figure e-6. An open-label pilot study of MMF in MG reported initial improvement at 28 weeks12 although a longer average of 10.8 weeks range 440 weeks was reported from a retrospective analysis of 85 patients.17 Treatment response to other immunosuppressants used in MG can take even longer.
Longer-term trials would be needed to demonstrate delayed initial responses and to study the long-term effects on maintenance of disease control and prevention of relapse months after prednisone discontinuation.Our study entry criteria favored inclusion of older patients those with milder disease and given the warnings against MMF use in pregnancy26 men and thus may have selected an unrepresentative MG population less likely to respond to MMF. They also had MG for an average of 3 years by which time MG is usually well-controlled and had been treated with differing doses and durations of corticosteroids before entering the study. Data are unavailable to stratify our results by prednisone dose before randomization to assess potential confounding effects of different pre-randomization prednisone regimens.Our study was designed with the expectation of detecting at least a 30% difference in treatment response rate between the MMF and placebo groups.
This target prednisone dose was chosen as it is considered to be below the level where chronic use would severely compromise bone mineral density.27 The effect of MMF may have been masked by this corticosteroid dose and potentially cholinesterase inhibitors. This finding suggests that the current prednisone doses used in clinical practice may be higher than needed.MMF was well tolerated with a safety profile consistent with that found in previous studies except for a lower than expected incidence of diarrhea.2628The completion of this study confirms that a large international multicenter phase III study can be successfully performed in a rare orphan autoimmune neurologic disease. As the first such drug trial in MG to incorporate MGFA recommendations22 on clinical research standards in full it should aid the design of future studies of MG immunotherapies. ACKNOWLEDGMENT. The authors thank Tom Potter and Sam Coates of Caudex Medical supported by Aspreva Pharmaceuticals for their editorial assistance with the preparation of the article. APPENDIX end. Investigators O. Abramsky MD Neurology Department Hadassah Medical Organization Jerusalem Israel S. Apostolski MD Institute of Neurology University of Belgrade School of Medicine Serbia and Montenegro R.
Berthele MD Klinik und Poliklinik fur Neurologie der Technischen Universitaet Muenchen Klinikum Rechts der Isar Muenchen Germany J.L.M. Blanco MD Neurology Department Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Maranon Madrid Spain E. Bogdanov MD Neurology and Rehabilitation Cathedra Kazan State Medical University Kazan Russia E. Ciafaloni MD Department of Neurology University of Rochester Medical Center NY M. de Baets MD Department of Neurology Academical Hospital Maastricht the Netherlands C. Desnuelle MD Federation Maladies Neuromusculaires Hopital de lArchet 1 Nice France S. Dwivedee MD Department of Neurology Vidysagar Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences New Delhi India M. Freimer MD Department of Neurology Ohio State University Columbus G. Garcia Ramos MD Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Medicas y Nutricion Salvador Zubiran Mexico City Mexico A. Gustov MD Regional Hospital/State Educational Institution postgraduate medical education Nizhniy Novgorod State Medical Academy Nizhniy Novgorod Russia I.K. Hart FRCP University Division of Neuroscience The Walton Centre for Neurology and Neurosurgery Liverpool UK D. Hilton-Jones MD University Department of Clinical Neurology John Radcliffe Hospital Oxford UK J.
Illa MD Neurology Department Hospital Ste. Creu i Saint Pau Barcelona Spain M. Inghilleri MD Dipartimento di Scienze Neurologiche Universita degli Studi La Sapienza Rome Italy S. Jander MD Neurologische Klinik Heinrich-Heine-Universitat Dusseldorf Germany A. Kozelkin MD School of Neurology Zaporozhye State Medical University Zaporozhye Ukraine G. le Masson MD Service de Neurologie 2a2 Hopital Pellegrin/CHU Bordeaux France R. Malamut MD Neurological Associates of Delaware Valley CCMC Ambulatory Care Upland PA R. Mantegazza MD Department of Neurology IV Neurological Institute Carlo Besta Foundation Milan Italy A.K. Meena MD Department of Neu-Neurology 71 August 5 2008 405rology Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences Hyderabad India M.M. Mehndiratta MD Neurology GB Pant Hospital New Delhi India A. Melms MD Neurologische Klinik Universitat Tubingen Germany G. Meola MD Dipartimento di Neurologia Policlinico san Donato San Donato Milanese Milan Italy M. Nicolle MD London Health Sciences Centre University of Western Ontario London Canada S. Ravat MD Department of Neurology GS Medical College and KEM Hospital Mumbai India D. Richman MD Department of Neurology and the Center for Neuroscience University of California Davis S. Rivera Nava MD private clinic Guanajuato Mexico City Mexico A.
Saperstein MD Department of Neurology at the Landon Center on Aging University of Kansas Medical Center Kansas City B. Schalke MD Klinik und Poliklinik fur Neurologie der Universitat Regensburg Germany K. Sharma MD Department of Neurology University of Miami School of Medicine FL M. Shevnyuk MD 1 Bohoutivska Str. Kiev Ukraine Z. Siddiqi MD Department of Medicine University of Alberta Edmonton Canada N. Spirin MD Department of Neurology at the City Clinical Hospital No. 8 Yaroslavl State Medical Academy Russia J. Sussman MD Department of Neurology at the Greater Manchester Neuroscience Centre Hope Hospital Salford UK A. Syal MD Arizona Neurological Institute Sun City P. van Doorn MD Department of Neurology Erasmus MC Rotterdam The Netherlands J. Verschuuren MD Department of Neurology Leiden University Medical Centre the Netherlands P.V. Voloshyn MD Institute of Neurology Psychiatry and Narcology Ams of Ukraine Kharkiv Ukraine G. Wolfe MD Department of Neurology The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas.Received July 27 2007. Accepted in final form January 7 2008. A patient with pemphigus foliaceus and myasthenia gravis treated by a cortisolsecreting adrenal adenoma.
A diffuse purulent and nonulcerated cervicitis beginning with menses in a sexually active young woman who also complains of pharyngeal symptoms is described as strongly indicative of a gonococcal origin. On the other hand a mild erosive cervicitis frequently accompanied by extensive vulvar vesiculation and disproportionate dysuria should make us rule out a herpetic aetiology. Although isolated cervical HSV without or with minimal vulvar lesions is generally thought to be a silent STI the first episode of herpetic cervicitis may be clinically indistinguishable from Neisseria gonorrhoeae or Chlamydia trachomatis infections as we have seen in our patient. According to published data extragenital cutaneous involvement associated with GH varies from 9% to 61%. The highest incidence has been reported among women and during true primary episodes those with previous negative HSV antibodies. Clinical findings usually consist of grouped vesicles and erosions on an erythematous base resembling the classical morphology of herpetic lesions.
This serologically determined distribution and the characteristic herpetiformis clustering seem to be caused by direct inoculation of the virus during close contact or by intraneuronal spreading. However the clinical presentation of extragenital lesions observed in our immunocompetent patient disseminated pustules differs significantly from this pattern and might be better explained by haematogenous spreading. The isolation of HSV from blood samples has been well documented in patients with systemic immunosuppression or conditions related to a higher risk of dissemination such as pregnancy. Recently Harel et al. demonstrated the presence of viraemia in 34% of immunocompetent children with primary HSV-1 gingivostomatitis. Whether herpetic viraemia correlates with a clinical dissemination in otherwise healthy patients with primary GH remains unknown. Our case reinforces the hypothesis that haematogenous spreading during primary GH might play an important pathogenic role not only in immunossuppresed individuals but also in systemic manifestations of immunocompetent patients. Although fever arthralgia and distant skin lesions represent the typical picture of disseminated gonococcal infection dermatologists should bear in mind that primary GH may resemble this clinical appearance.
panied by extensive vulvar vesiculation and disproportionate dysuria should make us rule out a herpetic aetiology.13 Although isolated cervical HSV without or with minimal vulvar lesions is generally thought to be a silent STI5 the first episode of herpetic cervicitis may be clinically indistinguishable from Neisseria gonorrhoeae or Chlamydia trachomatis infections as we have seen in our patient.According to published data extragenital cutaneous involvement associated with GH varies from 9% to 6. 1%.26 The highest incidence has been reported among women and during true primary episodes those with previous negative HSV antibodies.7 Clinical findings usually consist of grouped vesicles and erosions on an erythematous base resembling the classical morphology of herpetic lesions.267 Even though any part of the body may be affected nongenital lesions among immunocompetent patients with GH are usually described as involving limited and serologically related areas the lower body buttocks and th.
eading end. The isolation of HSV from blood samples has been well documented in patients with systemic immunosuppression or conditions related to a higher risk of dissemination such as pregnancy.8 Recently Harel et al.9 demonstrated the presence of viraemia in 34% of immunocompetent children with primary HSV-1 gingivostomatitis. Whether herpetic viraemia correlates with a clinical dissemination in otherwise healthy patients with primary GH remains unknown.Our case reinforces the hypothesis that haematogenous spreading during primary GH might play an important pathogenic role not only in immunossuppresed individuals but also in systemic manifestations of immunocompetent patients.10 Although fever arthralgia and distant skin lesions represent the typical picture of disseminated gonococcal infection dermatologists should b. ear in mind that primary GH may resemble this clinical appearance.L . MARO NAS - J IM EN E ZD. MEN I SA .M. DELGADO-M ARQUEZC . ZARCO-OL IVO F . J  end. ORT I Z D E FRUTO SDermatology Department 12 de Octubre University Hospital Madrid Spain E-mail lydia.maroasjimenezgmail.com. A patient with pemphigus foliaceus and myasthenia gravis treated by a cortisolsecreting adrenal adenoma.
A skin biopsy revealed subcorneal blisters. Direct immunofluorescence showed intercellular deposition of IgG and C3 in the epidermis Fig. 1 end. Indirect immunofluorescence demonstrated circulating intercellular anti-IgG antibodies to a titre of 1  200 on normal human skin substrate. This was consistent with a diagnosis of PF. Three years prior to her diagnosis of PF the patient had been diagnosed with myasthenia gravis MG. She was started on prednisolone 10 mg following this diagnosis which was subsequently increased to 40 mg in order to also control her PF. Although her skin disease was initially well controlled with high doses of prednisolone it was difficult to successfully taper her steroids and a number of steroid-sparing agents were trialled including azathioprine mycophenolate mofetil and dapsone. The patient 2014 British Association of DermatologistsBritish Journal of Dermatology 2015 172 pp276308was maintained on mycophenolate mofetil and prednisolone at a dose of around 10 mg once a day for several years.Three years after the diagnosis of PF it was noted that the patient had developed features of possible iatrogenic Cushing syndrome including easy bruising moon face and osteopenia. After a further 4 years the patient developed uncontrolled hypertension.
Seven months after cessation of steroids the patient had a worsening of her symptoms and signs of Cushing syndrome despite being off all exogenous steroids.The patient was fully investigated to determine the cause of Cushing syndrome. A 24-h urine steroid profile showed a cortisol production rate of 10 times that of normal. There was an absence of prednisolone metabolites indicating that a cortisolsecreting adrenocortical tumour was the likely diagnosis. Anadrenal CT scan confirmed a left adrenal adenoma. The patient had a successful adrenalectomy with histology confirming a benign adrenal adenoma. Following her surgery the patient demonstrated a rapid and complete resolution of her cushingoid features with her weight and facial plethora improving and normalization of blood pressure Fig. 2 end. However as her cushingoid features improved her skin disease started to flare and by 3 months postsurgery the patient was developing new pemphigus lesions despite oral hydrocortisone therapy in order to maintain her pituitaryadrenal axis.
There have been reports of coexisting bullous pemphigoid Graves disease lichen planus and systemic lupus erythematosus.3 PF can manifest as part of multiple autoimmune syndrome Type 1 in which patients have at least three distinct autoimmune conditions including pemphigus MG thymoma polymyositis autoimmune thyroid disease and giant cell myocarditis.4 Our patient did not fulfil this criteria.There has been one other report of an association between PF and an adrenal adenoma where the patient also. experienced worsening of skin lesions following adrenalectomy requiring a change from topical therapy to oral immunosuppression as well as a switch from PF to pemphigus vulgaris.5MG is an autoimmune disorder characterized by fatiguable muscle weakness mediated by antibodies against postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor antibodies or muscle specific tyrosine kinase.6 Management for both PF and MG includesa bFig 2.
to muscle and epidermis.89 Cortisolproducing adrenal adenomas are sometimes diagnosed following systemic manifestations of Cushing syndrome due to excess production of endogenous steroids or when functional testing shows subclinical Cushing syndrome after being initially identified as an adrenal incidentaloma.10This case demonstrates an interesting phenomenon of endogenous suppression of two autoimmune diseases PF and MG into remission by an occult adrenal tumour. The period of disease control off immunosuppressants with the flare of significant disease following successful treatment of the adrenal adenoma suggests that our patient had been autosuppressing her pemphigus and myasthenic activity with endogenous excess cortisol production. This case highlights the importance of careful clinical reviews and investigation of unexplained persistent symptoms in patients on long-term prednisolone and awareness of Cushing syndrome due to adrenal or pituitary pathology. Acknowledgments. Our thanks to Dr Norman Taylor PhD FRCPath Head of SAS Urinary Steroid Profiling Laboratory Kings College Hospital London.L . TOPHAM1 A. CHAPMAN1C . G I B B S 2 M.
E-mail monikasahadoctors.org.uk. Effi cacy of Low-Dose FK506 in the Treatment of Myasthenia gravis  A Randomized Pilot Study. To determine the effi cacy of low-dose FK506 in the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG untreated de novo patients were randomly selected to receive treatment with n  18 or without n  16 FK506 and were evaluated for 1 year after treatment with limitation of daily dose of prednisolone. Low-dose FK506 reduced the duration of early-phase therapy in hospital p  0.05 and the need for combined therapy with plasmapheresis and highdose intravenous methylprednisolone or high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone alone p  0.05. It also reduced the daily dose of prednisolone p  0.05 required to maintain minimal manifestations of MGFA postintervention status. None of the patients exhibited signifi cant side effects up to 1 year after treatment. These fi ndings suggest that low-dose FK506 is safe and effi cacious for the treatment of de novo MG patients. Copyright  2005 S. Karger AG Basel Received December 9 2004 Accepted March 22 2005 Published online May 17 2005. Fax 41 61 306 12 34 E-Mail kargerkarger.ch www.karger.comMyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease generally mediated by antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor AChR of skeletal muscle AChR Ab 1 .
Although both Th1 and Th2 cytokines generally play important roles in the pathogenesis of MG 3  T-cell proliferation and activation are apparently induced by interleukin-2 IL-2 particularly in severe cases of MG 4 . Treatment with the IL-2 fusion toxin DAB 389 IL-2 which is toxic to cells with high-affi nity IL-2 receptors prevents experimental autoimmune MG 5 . These fi ndings suggest that the IL-2-mediated immunoresponses in MG arise from functional abnormalities of T cells. The immunosuppressant FK506 binds to a cytoplasmic protein FK binding protein and inhibits calcineurin 6 . The principal biological effects of calcineurin inhibition include a decrease in antigen-stimulated IL-2 production in T cells and a decrease in IL-2 receptor expression on T cells 6 7 . FK506 has been proven safe and effective in preventing organ rejection in clinical organ transplantation 8 . Furthermore in noncontrolled studies it has been observed that even a low dose of FK506 can be used as an effective supplementary treatment for MG and produces no signifi cant side effects 911 . In the present study we examined the effi cacy of low-dose FK506 for treatment of de novo MG patients in a randomized prospective clinical trial.Copyright  2005 S.
81 196 51 5111 Fax 81 196 54 9860 E-Mail kutsugiiwate-med.ac.jp  2005 S. Karger AG Basel 00143022/05/0533014622.00/0 Accessible online at www.karger.com/eneEffects of FK506 on MG Eur Neurol 200553146150 147MethodsSubjects and Randomization Thirty-six de novo MG patients between the ages of 21 and 82 years mean age 55.4 8 16.4 years 10 males and 26 females were consecutively enrolled into the study and were randomly and reciprocally selected to receive treatment with or without FK506. However the present study design was unblinded and nonplacebo controlled. Informed consent was obtained from all subjects. FK506 Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Osaka Japan was administered orally at a daily dose of 3 mg which is approximately 20% of the dose given initially to organ transplant patients 8 . The diagnosis of MG was based on widely accepted criteria 12 . Factors for exclusion from the present study were previous immunosuppressant therapy elevated levels of serum liver enzymes renal insuffi - ciency pregnancy and age younger than 20 years.Study Design and the Primary Endpoints Early-Phase Therapy The patients were admitted to our hospital for early-phase therapy which was started with FK506 and/or prednisolone PSL administration.
In patients who received thymectomy no pharmacological intervention was performed before thymectomy and administration of FK506 and/or PSL was started within 2 days after thymectomy. Normal quality of life corresponding to the category Minimal Manifestations of Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA Postintervention Status MM 13 was achieved in both groups of patients by administering the following treatment as required. Treatment in the early-phase therapy during hospital stay consisted of oral PSL not exceeding a daily dose of 20 mg and combined therapy with plasmapheresis immunoadsorption method 14  IA and high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone HMP IA  HMP 14 . HMP was performed by serial intravenous injection of 1.0 g methylprednisolone/100 ml saline immediately after IA and on the morning of the following 2 days 14 . Anticholinesterase medication was prohibited in the early-phase therapy. PSL dose was tapered and adjusted to the minimal dose to maintain MM.The endpoint of the early-phase therapy was defi ned as the time at which clinical symptoms remained MM with PSL not exceeding 10 mg per day.
In the follow-up phase therapy IA  HMP HMP alone oral PSL not exceeding a daily dose of 20 mg or pyridostigmine bromide 60 or 120 mg per day was administered as needed to maintain MM.The endpoint of the follow-up phase therapy was defi ned as 1 year after the beginning of treatment. Effi cacy of FK506 was evaluated by comparison of the number of treatments with IA  HMP or HMP alone during the follow-up phase and the dose of oral PSL per day required at the endpoint between the two groups of patients treated with or without FK506 see table 2 .The protocol for this study was approved by the ethics committee of our institute.Clinical Parameters Clinical classifi cation was performed according to MGFA 13  table 1 . Clinical severity was determined by patients and participating physicians Y.N. D.O. and R.K. not blinded to the treatment type according to MGFA quantitative MG score 13  table 13 . Each patient was assessed by the same physician throughout the course of the present study. The ratios posttreatment to pretreatment of clinical severity score were calculated.
In brief PBMs from the patients were cultured in standard RPMI medium supplemented with 1% fetal bovine serum and 20 g/ml of phytohemagglutinin for 48 h. Then the IL-2 concentration pg/ml of the supernatant was measured by solid-phase enzyme-linked immunoassay ELISA 15 . Serum AChR Ab titer was estimated by the immunoprecipitation method using 125 I-alpha-bungarotoxin. The ratios posttreatment to pretreatment of PBM IL-2 production and AChR Ab titer for patients with elevated AChR Ab titer were calculated. PBM IL-2 production PBM IL-2 production ratio and AChR Ab ratio were estimated for individual patients before and at 1 month 6 months and 1 year after the beginning of treatment  table 3 .Nagane/Utsugisawa/Obara/Kondoh/ Terayama Eur Neurol 200553146150 148. Before treatment. end. Early-phase therapy. Effects of FK506 on MG Eur Neurol 200553146150 149Statistics Differences in the evaluation items of the effi cacy of FK506 between the two groups were estimated with the Mann-Whitney U test. Changes in clinical and laboratory parameters in each patient group at 1 month 6 months and 1 year into the treatment compared with before treatment were estimated with Wilcoxon signedrank test.
Blood test results were monitored by the nonblinded doctor.ResultsTwo patients selected to receive treatment without FK506 were excluded from the study because daily dose of PSL exceeded 20 mg to achieve MM in the early-phase therapy. The fi nal analysis was performed for 18 patients treated with FK506 and 16 patients treated without FK506. There was no difference in background including the frequency of thymectomized patients between the two groups  table 1 .The Primary Endpoints At the endpoint of the early-phase therapy  table 2 and at 6 months and 1 year into the treatment  table 3  MM was achieved in both groups of patients and the mean severity score and the mean severity ratio were signifi cantly decreased in both groups of patients compared with before treatment with no difference between the two groups  tables 2 and 3 .The. number of treatments with IA  HMP was signifi cantly lower in the patients treated with FK506 than in those treated without FK506 during early-phase therapy p  0.05 table 2 . The period of early-phase therapy was signifi cantly shorter in the group treated with FK506 p  0.05 table 2 .
At 1 year into the treatment the PSL dose required was signifi cantly lower for the patients treated with FK506 than for those treated without FK506 p  0.05 table 2 .Laboratory Parameters At 6 months and 1 year into the treatment PBM IL-2production and PBM IL-2 production ratio were more markedly decreased in the patients treated with FK506 than in those treated without FK506 p  0.05 table 3 .Although the mean AChR Ab ratio was signifi cantly decreased in the patients treated without FK506 at 1 . month 6 months and 1 year into the treatment  table 3  it was not decreased in the patients treated with FK506 up to 6 months into the treatment  table 3 . The mean AChR Ab ratio was signifi cantly lower in the patients treated without FK506 than in those treated with FK506 at 1 month p  0.05 table 3  but there was no difference between the two groups at 6 months or 1 year  table 3 .Side Effects FK506 was well tolerated over the 1-year treatmentperiod. The mean concentration of FK506 did not change throughout the study in the patients treated with FK506  table 3 . None of the patients exhibited signifi cant side effects up to 1 year into the treatment.
None of the patients exhibited signifi cant side effects up to 1 year into the treatment which is consistent with previous reports 911  probably because of the low-dose administration daily dose of 3 mg of FK506 8 . Furthermore among the 18 patients treated with FK506 4 patients 22% maintained MM suffi ciently with FK506 alone during the follow-up phase severity score 6.2 8 3.3 before treatment 1.3 8 1.1 at 1 year. This indicates that low-dose FK506 is safe and effi cacious for treatment of de novo MG patients. Among the 4 patients who maintained MM suffi ciently with FK506 alone 3 exhibited elevated PBM IL-2 production  1 1250 pg/ml 15  before treatment generalized symptoms of MG and elevated serum AChR Ab titer. This appears consistent with previous reports that MG patients with elevated PBM IL-2 production exhibited immediate effects after FK506 with clinical characteristics including generalized symptoms of MG and serum AChR-Ab positivity 11 15 .The therapeutic protocol in the present study would be somewhat different from an orthodox method that attaches more importance to oral steroid therapy.
s with and without FK506 39 and 38% respectively table 1  possibly due to their relatively higher age 56.6 8 17.0 and 54.2 8 16.1 years respectively table 1 . Although no signifi cant difference in the effects of lowdose FK506 was observed between thymectomized n  7 and nonthymectomized n  11 patients at up to 1 year not shown longer-term observation is needed to investigate the effects of low-dose FK506 on the need for thymectomy.In the patients treated with FK506 signifi cant amelioration of symptoms was observed at 1 month into the treatment with FK506. However serum AChR Ab titer was unchanged at 1 month and then gradually decreased at 6 months and 1 year  table 3 . In our previous study despite amelioration of symptoms serum AChR Ab titer was not affected in the fi rst month after FK506 treatment of MG 11 . The mechanisms of the early effect of FK506regardless of AChR Ab titer levels remain to be elucidated.
l number of patients. Larger-scale multicenter double-blind and placebo-controlled clinical trials to confi rm the effi cacy of FK506 in the treatment of MG are currently in progress in Japan.In conclusion early administration of low-dose FK506 for the treatment of MG reduces the number of treatments with IA  HMP or HMP alone and reduces the duration of the initial therapy suggesting that it is an effective measure of treatment for de novo MG patients.AcknowledgementThis study was supported in part by a grant from th. e Ministry of Education Science and Culture Japan.References1 Patrick J Lindstrom J Autoimmune response to acetylcholine receptor. Science 1973 180 871872. 2 Fujii Y Lindstrom J Regulation of antibody production by helper T cell clones in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. J Immunol 1988 141 33613369. 3 Zang G-X Navikas V Link H Cytokines and the pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 1997 20 543551. 4 Cohen-Kaminsky S Gaud C Morel E BerrihAknin S High recombinant interleukin-2 sensitivity of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with myasthenia gravis Correlations with clinical parameters. J Autoimmun 1989 2 241258.
J Neuroimmunol 1998 87 136146. 6 Schreiber SL Crabtree GR The mechanism of action of cyclosporin A and FK506. Immunol Today 1992 13 136142.7 Kino T Hatanaka H Miyata S Inamura N Nishiyama M Yajima T Goto T Okuhara M Kohsaka M Aoki H Ochiai T FK506 a novel immunosuppressant isolated from a streptomyces. II end. Immunosuppressive effect of FK506 in vitro. J Antibiot Tokyo 1987 40 1256 1265. 8 European FK506 Multicentre Liver Study Group. Randomised trial comparing tacrolimus FK506 and cyclosporin in prevention of liver allograft rejection. Lancet 1997 344 423 428. 9 Evoli A Di Schino C Marsili F Punzi C Successful treatment of myasthenia gravis with tacrolimus. Muscle Nerve 2002 25 111114. 10 Konishi T Yoshiyama Y Takamori M Yagi K Mukai E Saida T the Japanese FK506 MG study group Clinical study of FK506 in patients with myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2003 28 570574. 11 Utsugisawa K Nagane Y Yonezawa H Obara D Kondoh R Tohgi H Effects of FK506 on myasthenia gravis patients with high interleukin-2 productivity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Muscle Nerve 2003 27 245248. 12 Cosi V Romani A Lombardi M Raiola E Bergamaschi R Piccolo G Citterio A Berzuini C Prognosis of myasthenia gravis A retrospective study of 380 patients. J Neurol 1997 244 548555.
Task Force of the Medical Scientifi c Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. Neurology 2000 55 1623. 14 Munakata R Utsugisawa K Nagane Y Yamagata M Oikawa M Obara D Tohgi H The effect of combined therapy with immunoadsorption and high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone on myasthenia gravis. Eur Neurol 2002 48 115117. 15 Utsugisawa K Nagane Y Yonezawa H Obara D Kondoh R Tohgi H Interleukin-2 production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with myasthenia gravis. Eur Neurol 2003 49 160163.16 Takamori M Motomura M Kawaguchi N Nemoto Y Hattori T Yoshikawa H Otsuka K Anti-ryanodine receptor antibodies and FK506 in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2004 62 18941896. Population Pharmacokinetic Analysis of Tacrolimus in Adult Chinese Patients with Myasthenia Gravis A Prospective Study. Background and Objectives Tacrolimus is a widely used immunosuppressive agent with narrow therapeutic window. Nowadays tacrolimus has gained acceptance as a therapeutic option in myasthenia gravis MG treament however little is known about its pharmacokinetic characteristics in MG population. In this study we aimed to investigate the population pharmacokinetic PopPK of tacrolimus in patients with MG and to develop model-informed dosing regimens.
The non-linear mixed-effects model was used for PopPK modeling. Monte Carlo simulations based on the established model were employed to design dosing regimens. Results The PopPK model was described using a one-compartment model with first-order absorption and elimination. The mean apparent clearance CL/F of tacrolimus was 17.1 L/h with a between-subject variability of 20.1%. Covariate screening of demographic characteristics blood test results co-medications and CYP3A53 or CYP3A41G polymorphisms showed that the CYP3A53 genotype and co-administration of a Wuzhi capsule significantly affected tacrolimus CL/F. Conclusions For patients with the CYP3A533 allele the required tacrolimus dose for 75% of subjects to achieve target trough concentrations of 4.815 ng/mL was 2 mg every 12 h q12h. For patients with the CYP3A511 allele the required dose was 2 mg tacrolimus q12h with a Wuzhi capsule and for patients with the CYP3A513 allele the required dose was 3 mg of tacrolimus q12h or 4 mg q24h co-administered with a Wuzhi capsule. This model could be employed to optimize individualized therapies for patients with MG.
ntre Hospital of Shanghai Shanghai China 6 Department of Pharmacy The Affiliated Wuxi Peoples Hospital of Nanjing Medical University Wuxi China Key Points A population pharmacokinetic model was built to describe the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus in adult Chinese patients with myasthenia gravis. The CYP3A53 genotype and co-administration of a Wuzhi capsule significantly affected tacrolimus clearance. A dosing regimen based on the CYP3A53 genotype and co-administration of a Wuzhi capsule in patients with myasthenia gravis was proposed. Vol.0123456789 Zheng Jiao zjiaofudan.edu.cn Jian-Ying Xi xijianyingfudan.edu.cn1 Department ofPharmacy Huashan Hospital Fudan University 12 Middle Urumqi Rd Shanghai200040 China2 School ofBasic Medicine andClinical Pharmacy China Pharmaceutical University Nanjing China3 Department ofPharmacy Shanghai Chest Hospital 241 West Huaihai Rd Shanghai200030 China4 Department ofNeurology Huashan Hospital Fudan University 12 Middle Urumqi Rd Shanghai200040 China5 Department ofNeurology Jingan District Cen.
myasthenia gravis was proposed. 1 Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an acquired autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction characterized by weakness and fatigue of the skeletal muscle. It is a rare disease with a reported incidence rate ranging from 2.1 to 30 per million person years 1 2. Acetylcholine receptor inhibitors e.g. pyridostigmine are the preferred symptomatic treatment for MG and for patients with inadequate responses to symptomatic therapy corticosteroids azathioprine intravenous immunoglobulin or thymectomy are the first-lineimmunosuppressive treatments 3. However some patients present obvious adverse effects or intolerance and even exhibit non-responsiveness after long-term treatment 4 5. In recent years growing evidence 68 supports the use of tacrolimus as an effective immunosuppressant in MG therapy since it is associated with very few adverse events. Tacrolimus has gained acceptance as an emerging favorable therapeutic option in MG treatment in several countries including Japan and the UK and is recommended by the international consensus guidelines 912.Tacrolimus is a macrolide immunosuppressant derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis 13 and is commonly used after solid organ transplantation to prevent rejection.
Several clinical factors have been demonstrated to affect tacrolimus pharmacokinetics including physiological and pathological characteristics co-medications and single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs of CYP3A41G and CYP3A53. Therefore to optimize dosing regimens and therapeutic efficacy the concentration of tacrolimus should be routinely monitored and the dosage adjusted accordingly 15 16.The maximum a posteriori Bayesian MAPB estimation method is the most accepted method to individualize therapy 17. To perform MAPB estimation for a representative population relative pharmacokinetic parameters should be estimated from clinical data. An appropriate population pharmacokinetic PopPK model can be used as prior information in a Bayesian dosage prediction program to assist with dosage prediction and adjustment 18.Current PopPK studies on tacrolimus are mainly focused on its use after solid organ transplantation 19. However as the physiological and pathological characteristics and co-medications differ between MG and transplant patients the pharmacokinetic data from transplant patients cannot be extrapolated to patients with MG.
Therefore further understanding of factors that might influence tacrolimus pharmacokinetics in patients with MG is valuable for individualizing tacrolimus dosage regimens. The purpose of the present study was to prospectively establish a PopPK model of tacrolimus and to develop a model-informed individualized therapeutic regimen. 2 Methods. end. 2.1 Patients andData Collection. This was a prospective observational study carried out at the Huashan Hospital Fudan University Shanghai China from October 2017 to April 2019. The study received ethical approval from the Medical Ethics Committee of the Huashan Hospital reference number KY2016-271 and was registered in the Centre for Clinical Research and Biostatistics CCRB Clinical Trial Registry ID number CUHK TMP00247. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study.Patients included in the study were aged 1870years and diagnosed with MG 10. All patients received oral tacrolimus capsules Prograf Astellas Ireland Co. Mulhuddart Dublin Ireland as the main immunosuppressant with or without steroid therapy.
Tacrolimus was administered mostly at the initial dose of 3mg every 24h q24h and the subsequent dose was empirically adjusted according to clinical efficacy of the patient and trough concentration C0 of 4.8ng/mL 21.The following information was collected from patients enrolled in this studytacrolimus dosage co-medications age body weight sex CYP3A53 and CYP3A41G genotypes and laboratory test results on alanine aminotransferase ALT aspartate transaminase AST gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase -GT seru. m creatinine SCr total bilirubin TBiL total protein TP albumin ALB red blood cell count RBC hematocrit HCT and hemoglobin Hb levels. In addition for each trough concentration precise tacrolimus administration and sampling times were recorded.2.2 Analysis ofTacrolimus Concentration andGenotypingWhole blood tacrolimus concentration was measured using an enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique EMIT with the SYVA Viva-EMIT 2000 kit Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc. Eschborn Germany. The intra-day precision coefficient variation CV was < 10% and inter-day precision CV was < 20% with a calibration range of 2.030ng/ mL 22.Whole blood 2mL was obtained from patients with MG and stored at  20C for genotyping.
DNA was extracted using the EZ-10 Spin Column Blood Genomic DNA Kit No. B518253 Sangon Biotech Co. Ltd. Shanghai China. SNPs were detected using a DNA direct sequencing Analyzer Applied Biosystems 3730XL Applied Systems Foster City CA USA 23. Pearsons chi-squared test was performed to assess the deviation in all SNP frequencies from the HardyWeinberg equilibrium p > 0.05. 2.3 Population Pharmacokinetic Analysis. PopPK modeling was carried out using non-linear mixedeffects modeling software NONMEM version 7.4 Icon Development Solutions Ellicott City MD USA with a Fortran compiler Version 4.6 aided by Pearl Speaks NONMEM PsN version 4.7.0. NONMEM outputs were analyzed and graphically presented using R v2.15.0 with Xpose4 version 4.3.5. The first-order conditional estimation method with the eta-epsilon interaction FOCE-I option was employed in the model building process. 2.4 The Base Model. A one-compartment pharmacokinetic model with first-order absorption was considered as the structural model of tacrolimus since only trough concentrations were available 24. Because no sampling was performed during the absorption phase in this study the absorption rate constant Ka could not be estimated. Therefore Ka was fixed to 0.75h1 according to a previous study 24.
j denotes the population parameter values which followed a normal distribution had a mean value of zero and a variance of j2.Residual unexplained variability RUV was evaluated using additive Eq.2 proportional Eq.3 and combined error models Eq.4.where Y is the observed tacrolimus concentration F is the model-predicted concentration and 1 and 2 represent1Pj  TVp  EXP j2Y  F  13Y  F  F  14Y  F  F  1  2the residual error of the model with a mean of zero and variances of 12 and 22 respectively.The ba. se model was selected based on the objective function values OFVs Bayesian information criterion visual inspection of goodness-of-fit GOF plots precision of parameter estimates and scientific plausibility. 2.5 Covariate Screening. Potential covariates tested included the categorical variables such as sex CYP3A41G and CYP3A53 genotypes daily dose of tacrolimus and co-medications including prednisone Xinyi Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Shanghai China Wuzhi capsule Hezheng Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Sichuan China and a proton pump inhibitor omeprazole sodium capsule Changzhou Siyao Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Jiangsu China.
Covariates that presented an apparent relationship with PopPK parameters were included in the subsequent analysis. A univariate analysis was also performed to determine whether it would improve the model. The covariate model was built by stepwise forward inclusionbackward elimination using the likelihood ratio test. A covariate was considered significant if its inclusion decreased the OFV by > 3.84 p < 0.05 df  1 and backward elimination of the covariate increased the OFV by > 6.63 p < 0.01 df  1. The influence of continuous covariates was explored using a linear exponential and power function model while that of categorical variables was described using a shift model. Moreover parameters with a significant reduction in BSV or RUV in covariate screening were considered to be physiologically and clinically meaningful. The shrinkage value was evaluated in the final model. 2.6 Model Evaluation. The final model was evaluated using four methods. First GOF plots were used to assess the final model including individual predictions IPRED versus observed concentrations OBS conditional weighted residuals CWRES versus population predictions PRED and CWRES distribution with time after dose administration.
This was performed using PsN ver.3.2.4. Third normalized prediction distribution errors NPDE were performed 2000 times to evaluate the simulation-baseddiagnostics of the final PopPK model using the NPDE R package version 2.15.0 https //www.npde.biost at.fr. Finally as the subjects were sampled at several dose levels in this study the prediction- and variability-corrected visual predictive check pvcVPC 25 was tested with 200 simulations for each observation to assess the predictive performance of the final model. Concentrationtime profiles were calculated for the median the 5th and the 95th percentiles in the distribution of the simulated data and were overlaid with the observed data. 2.7 ModelInformed Tacrolimus Dosing Regimen. Both tacrolimus and tacrolimus co-medication with Wuzhi capsule therapeutic regimens were simulated for CYP3A53 polymorphisms. Ten dosing regimens 1.5 2 3 4 and 5mg q12h 3 4 6 8 and 10mg q24h were simulated. Simulations were performed 1000 times based on the final established model. An optimal dosage regimen was proposed or developed with respect to the target tacrolimus C0 window of 4.815ng/mL 21 26. 3 Results. end. 3.1 Patient Characteristics.
Patient characteristics are summarized in Table1. Of the 97 patients 59.8% subjects were female and 12.4% were elderly patients  65years. Furthermore 18.5% of patients in the cohort were concomitantly using Wuzhi capsules and among these patients 94.4% had one or more of the CYP3A51 allelesCYP3A51/1 or CYP3A51/3. The frequencies of CYP3A41G and CYP3A53 alleles are listed in Table1. The observed allele frequencies are similar to those previously determined in Asians 23 27 and there was no deviation from the HardyWeinberg equilibrium. Two subjects were excluded owing to lack of tacrolimus measurements and laboratory tests. 3.2 Base Model. A one-compartment model with first-order elimination was selected as the base model. The proportional model provides the best results for residual variability. The BSV of mean apparent clearance CL/F in the base model was 26.6% with an RUV of 35.9%. Only trough concentrations were collected and a BSV of apparent volume of distribution V/F was < 1%. Therefore the BSV of V/F was not estimatedduring development of the model. The GOF plots of base model arepresented in theAppendix. 3.3 Covariate Screening.
Body weight BW was investigated together with the other covariates however in the forward inclusion process as theALT alanine aminotransferase AST aspartate transaminase -GT gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase TBiL total bilirubin TP total protein ALB albumin Hb hemoglobin HCT hematocrit RBC red blood cell SCr serum creatinineinclusion of BW caused a reduction of OFV of < 3.84 it was therefore not incorporated in the model.By including the Wuzhi capsule CYP3A53 and CYP3A41G genotypes the OFVs were sig. nificantly decreased by 54.46 68.34 and 45.37 respectively. Inclusion of CYP3A53 with CYP3A41G genotype together led to a significant drop in OFV 69.02. We also investigated the combination of CYP3A53 and CYP3A41G genotype as followsCYP3A53/3-CYP3A41/1G CYP3A53/3CYP3A41/1  CYP3A51/3-CYP3A41/1G CYP3A51/3-CYP3A4 1 /1  CYP3A51/1CYP3A41G/1G and CYP3A51/1-CYP3A41/1G. Incorporation of the 3A51/3-3A41/1 genotype showed the largest decrease in OFV by 67.96 among all genotype combinations. Univariate analysis showed that CYP3A53 had a greater effect than CYP3A41G and genotype combination. Therefore CYP3A53 polymorphisms had the dominant role and were included in the final model.
The estimated CL/F increased by 1.57-fold for the CYP3A51/3 allele and by 1.86- fold for the CYP3A51/1 allele compared with that for the CYP3A53/3 allele. The CL/F for tacrolimus5CL/FL/h  17.1  0.582 WZC  1 for CYP3A5  3  3 1.57 for CYP3A5  1  3 1.85 for CYP3A5  1  16VFL  572co-administered with a Wuzhi capsule in CYP3A53/3 CYP3A51/3 and CYP3A51/1 was 10.0L/h 15.6L/h and 18.4L/h respectively. The estimate of shrinkage was 16% for CL/F and 11% for RUV. The BSV was reduced by 20.1% when compared with the base model. The PopPK parameter estimates and precision with the covariates of the final model are shown in Table2. 3.4 Model Evaluation. The PopPK model showed no obvious bias in the GOF plots. Population predictions and individual predictions were evenly distributed and CWRES did not reflect any systematic deviations Fig.1.The bootstrap analysis was successful in 99.9% of 1000 runs showing the PopPK parameter estimates and their close agreement with their respective values by NONMEM this indicated that the estimations of the final model were accurate and that this model was stable. A summary of parameter estimates from the bootstrap analysis is shown in Table2.Evaluation of the predictive performance using the NPDE analysis is shown in Fig.2.
No trend was observed in the scatterplots thereby confirming that the final PopPK model adequately described the observed data.The pvcVPC of the final model is presented in Fig.3. The pvcVPC of the final model indicates an acceptable overlap between the simulated model and the observed tacrolimus concentrations.Parameters Base model Final model Bootstrap of final modelEstimate RSE % Estimate RSE % Median 95% CI. 3.5 ModelInformed Dosing Regimens. The results of the Monte Carlo simulation are presented in Figs.4 and 5. The simulation showed that in the absence of a Wuzhi capsule CYP3A53/3 carriers administered with a tacrolimus dosage of 3mg q24h could reach the median C0 of 4.85ng/mL and that for 75% subjects to reach thetarget C0 2mg q12h was required. For > 75% subjects with CYP3A51/3 and CYP3A51/1 to reach the target C0 initial dosing of tacrolimus at least 3mg q12h and 4mg q12h was required respectively. In contrast in the presence of a Wuzhi capsule > 75% of subjects with CYP3A53/3 could achieve a tacrolimus C0 of 6.4ng/mL with 3mg q24h regimen. For > 75% subjects with CYP3A51/3 to reach thetarget tacrolimus C0 4mg q24h tacrolimus with a Wuzhi capsule was required whereas 2mg q12h tacrolimus with a Wuzhi capsule was required for the CYP3A51/1 group.
Moreover CYP3A51/3 and CYP3A51/1 showed a greater effect on dosing interval adjustment than CYP3A53/3. 4 Discussion. To the best of our knowledge this is the first prospective PopPK study of tacrolimus in patients with MG to investigate the effect of demographics pharmacogenetics andconcomitant medications on tacrolimus PopPK parameters. The effects of the CYP3A53 genotype and Wuzhi capsule on tacrolimus clearance were confirmed in the MG population as previously reported 28 29.In our study the estimated typical CL/F value of the population was 17.1L/h which was lower than that reported in renal transplant patients 22.931.8L/h 30 31 and liver transplant patients 21.926.5L/h 27 32. It was comparable to lung transplant patients 17.536.5L/h 33 34 and was higher than that in patients with nephrotic syndrome 10.8 L/h 28 and in healthy populations 10.313.9L/h 3537. The only pharmacokinetic study in the MG population that was previously performed by Chen etal. 20 reported a mean CL/F value of 3.6L/h which isFig. 4 Boxplots of the distributions of simulated tacrolimus trough concentrations for CYP3A51/1 1/3 and 3/3 on 1.5 2 3 4 and 5mg q12h and 3 4 6 8 and 10mg q24h regimens for the non-combined Wuzhi capsule group in MG patients.
The whiskers indicate the maximum and the minimum values of trough concentrations. Dots represent the outliersconsiderably lower than that observed in our study. There were obvious differences in the age of subjects between the two studies. The age of the cohort in the study by Chen etal. was 281years with 16 patients under 16years of age. The wider age range in the study by Chen etal. resulted in a wider range of BW from 13.5 to 110kg which could partially explain the lower CL/F observed in their study compared with that recorded in ours. However in the present study age and BW were not found to have a significant influence on CL in the 1870year range. Moreover Chen etal. identified hematocrit to be a significant covariate on CL/F several studies 15 38 have also shown that hematocrit influences tacrolimus elimination especially during the early stages after transplantation. However it was not identified as a significant covariate in our model which could be explained by the homogeneous hematocrit in the present study 39.
Patients with the CYP3A53/3 genotype had lower tacrolimus CL/F than patients with the CYP3A51 genotype CYP3A51/1 and CYP3A513. This relationship was in line with previous findings 40 41 and could be explained by the fact that carriers of the CYP3A53 allele did not express the CYP3A5 enzyme.Besides genetic factors concomitant medications could also induce drugdrug interactions involving tacrolimus. Hence co-administration of steroids proton pump inhibitors and Wuzhi capsules was also considered in the covariate analysis. However only Wuzhi capsules demonstrated a significant association with tacrolimus clearance.A Wuzhi capsule is a preparation of the herbal medicine wuweizi Schisandra sphenanthera and its primary constituents are schisantherin A schisandrol B and schisandrin 42. Previous studies 43 have demonstrated that the main active ingredients in Wuzhi capsules influence tacrolimus elimination by inhibiting P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux and CYP3A-mediated metabolism and a reduction in firstpass intestinal metabolism. It can also increase tacrolimus oral bioavailability 44. There were 18 patients to whom tacrolimus was co-administered with a Wuzhi capsule inthe present study.
After concomitant use of Wuzhi capsules the CL/F of patients with the 1/1 and 1/3 genotype decreased to 18.4L/h and 15.6L/h respectively closer to the CL/F values of 17.1 reported in patients with the 3/3 genotype. A previous study 45 reported that Wuzhi capsules can increase the C0/D of tacrolimus in CYP3A51/1 and 1/3 genotype but has no significant effect on 3/3 genotype. However only one subject with the 3/3 genotype was co-administered with a Wuzhi capsule therefore the influence of Wuzhi capsules on the CYP3A533 genotype could not be evaluated accurately in our study.Genotyping has proven to be effective in predicting the starting dose of tacrolimus 29 46. Based on the final model we developed a dosing regimen for patients with MG with different CYP3A5 genotypes who received tacrolimus with a Wuzhi capsule. There was a significant difference p < 0.05 in the dosage requirements between CYP3A5 expressers and non-expressers. Our analysis showed that with a tacrolimus dosing regimen of 2mg q12h > 75% of subjects with the CYP3A533 genotype could achieve the target tacrolimus C0 of 4.8ng/mL.
In the CYP3A511 group with routine clinical dosage patients could not reach the target C0 and co-administration of a Wuzhi capsule initially with a tacrolimus dosage of 2mg q12h could help patients to reach the target tacrolimus C0. Nevertheless the long-term safety of tacrolimus co-administered with a Wuzhi capsule has not been fully validated necessitating further studies.There are some limitations to this study. First the dataset used in this study only comprised trough concentrations which were only available for the reliable assessment of CL/F and its covariates. Second only one patient with the CYP3A533 genotype was co-administered with a Wuzhi capsule. Although simulation was performed in these populations several deviations may exist in the real-world situation. Third only the PopPK characteristics of tacrolimus were investigated. Further research on the pharmacokineticpharmacodynamic relationship should be conducted which could identify more appropriate strategies for tacrolimus administration in patients with MG. 5 Conclusions. This study presents a PopPK model of tacrolimus for Chinese adult patients with MG. Both the CYP3A53 genotype and co-medication of Wuzhi capsules were identified as covariates for CL/F of tacrolimus.
The authors would also like to thank Editage https //www.edita ge.cn for English language editing.Author contributions JL ZJ C-BZ and J-YX participated in the research design. JL Y-PG C-BZ and HW contributed to the collection of patient data. Statistical analyses model development and model evaluations were performed by JL Y-PG ZL XC and ZJ. The first draft of the manuscript was written by JL and ZJ. All authors commented on previous versions of the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.Compliance with Ethical StandardsFunding This work was supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 81573505 the Weak Discipline Construction Project from the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning No. 2016ZB0301-01 the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning No. 20164Y0238 the finance of reserve talents from Shanghai Jingan district Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning and the Scientific Research Project supported by the Huashan Hospital Fudan University No.
All protocols were approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of Huashan Hospital reference No. KY2016-271.Informed consent Iinformed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study.AppendixSee Table3 and Fig.6. Thymic Germinal Centers and Corticosteroids in Myasthenia Gravis an Immunopathological Study in 1035 Cases and a Critical Review. The most common form of Myasthenia gravis MG is due to anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies and is frequently associated with thymic pathology. In this review we discuss the immunopathological characteristics and molecular mechanisms of thymic follicular hyperplasia the effects of corticosteroids on this thymic pathology and the role of thymic epithelial cells TEC a key player in the inflammatory thymic mechanisms. This review is based not only on the literature data but also on thymic transcriptome results and analyses of pathological and immunological correlations in a vast cohort of 1035 MG patients without thymoma. We show that among patients presenting a thymic hyperplasia with germinal centers GC 80 % are females indicating that thymic follicular hyperplasia is mainly a disease of women.
The degree of hyperplasia is not dependent upon the time from the onset implying that either the antigen is chronically expressed and/or that the mechanisms of the resolution of the GC are not efficiently controlled. Glucocorticoids a conventional therapy in MG induce a significant reduction in the GC number together with changes in the expression of chemokines and angiogenesis. These changes are likely related to the acetylation molecular process overrepresented in corticosteroid-treated patients and essential for gene regulation. Altogether based on the pathological and molecular thymic abnormalities found in MG patients this review provides some explanations for the benefit of thymectomy in early-onset MG patients. that the thymus is a source of anti-AChR antibodies. The degree of hyperplasia is not dependent upon the time from the onset implying that either the antigen is chronically expressed and/or that the mechanisms of the resolution of the GC are not efficiently controlled. Glucocorticoids a conventional therapy in MG induce a significant reduction in the GC number together with changes in the expression of chemokines and angiogenesis.
Altogether based on the pathological and molecular thymic abnormalities found in MG patients this review provides some explanations for the benefit of thymectomy in early-onset MG patients.Keywords Autoimmune diseases . Chronic inflammation . Transcriptome . Thymic epithelial cells . Thymus  end. Genetic associations. Abbreviations. AChR Acetylcholine receptor AIRE Autoimmune regulator BAFF B cell-activating factor BCR B cell receptor EOMG Early-onset MG ER Estrogen receptor FDC Follicular dendritic cells GC Germinal center HEV High endothelial venules IFN Interferon IL Interleukin IRF IFN-regulatory factor KO Knock-out MG Myasthenia gravis MS Multiple sclerosis Sonia Berrih-Aknin sonia.berrih-akninupmc.fr1 INSERM U974 Paris France 2 CNRS FRE3617 Paris France 3 Sorbonne Universits UPMC Univ Paris 06 Paris France 4 AIM Insti.
PLP Proteolipid protein PTPN22 Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 TCR T cell receptor TEC Thymic epithelial cell Tfh T follicular helper TLR3 Toll-like receptor 3 TREC T cell receptor excision circles Treg Regulatory T cells. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is a rare neuromuscular disorder due to antibodies directed against molecules of the neuromuscular junction. If antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor AChR are found in about 85 % of MG patients there are other minor forms of MG with other autoantibodies. In approximately 5 % of MG patients the autoreactive antibodies are directed against a protein called muscle-specific kinase MuSK which plays a central role in the clustering of AChRs and other postsynaptic components at the neuromuscular junction NMJ 1. Recently autoantibodies against the agrin receptor LRP4 low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 a molecule that forms a complex with MuSK have been detected in a small proportion of MG patients without anti-AChR or anti-MuSK antibodies 2 3.The development of autoantibodies in autoimmune disorders is due to a breakdown of the mechanism of tolerance associated with defects in the regulation of the immune system. However each autoimmune pathology has specific features 4.
This disease is frequently associated with thymic pathology. In young patients thymic pathology is quite often expressed as follicular hyperplasia whereas in older patients the presence of thymoma is common 5.The thymus is the site of central tolerance the exclusive producer of T cells and undergoes involution with aging. Thus it remains quite intriguing that this organ could be in adults the site of inflammation B cell recruitment germinal center GC generation and neoangiogenesis 5.Although it is accepted that thymic follicular hyperplasia is preferentially found in young female MG patients very few data in the literature have analyzed the thymic pathology in a large cohort ofMG patients. In this review we will discuss the immunopathological characteristics and molecular mechanisms of thymic hyperplasia pathology the effects of corticosteroids and the role of thymic epithelial cells. This review is based not only on the literature data but also on pathological and immunological correlations analyzed in a cohort of 1035 MG patients without thymoma included in a French database. Physiological Role of the Thymus. end. Role in Central Tolerance and Generation of T Cell Repertoire.
The thymus is the primary organ responsible for the maturation of immunocompetent T cells with a diverse repertoire of antigen recognition 7. In physiological conditions the immune cells can raise an immune response against foreign antigens while holding immune tolerance toward self-antigens. Two principal mechanisms of tolerance have been deciphered the central tolerance occurring in the thymus and peripheral tolerance in the secondary lymphoid tissues 8.Central thymic tolerance is accomplished by a two-stage process. During the first stage naive CD4CD8 interact with MHC class I and II molecules displayed on thymic cortical epithelial cells. This step called positive selection leads to the protection from apoptosis of naive thymocytes whose T cell receptors TCRs interact with MHC molecules. The second phase is the negative selection in which thymocytes that display high-affinity receptors for self-MHC molecules expressed on antigen-presenting cells APCs will be deleted by apoptosis 9. The medullary thymic epithelial cells TEC play an important role in this process through the expression of self-antigens that are mainly under the control of the autoimmune regulator AIRE 10. Changes of the Thymus During Aging.
The thymic epithelium starts to decrease as early as the first year of human life at a rate of 3 % per year during adulthood in parallel with an expansion of perivascular space that progressively fills with adipocytes and peripheral lymphocytes 13 14. It has been suggested that thymic involution is a regulated process controlled by sex hormones and thymic peptides 13 15.Although the thymus has been considered to be inactive during adult human life several works tend to show that this is not the case. First of all lymphoid areas could be found in elderly thymuses 14 15. Second the human thymus can sustain T cell differentiation during adult life. Indeed the reconstitution of a lympho-epithelial framework was demonstrated in the young and adult thymus up to 36 years old at various times after bone marrow transplantation 16. Third although the cellular density decreases significantly with age it remains meaningful in post-puberty thymuses. A detailed phenotypic analysis of thymuses at various ages from 1 weekto 49 years has shown no significant variation according to the age of donors in the distribution of the main thymocyte subsets in both precursors and more mature T cells.
During T cell development recombination of gene segments encoding the variable parts of the TCR- and - chains generates the TCR diversity. During this process the TRECs are produced. As these molecules are lost upon further cell divisions the quantification of TRECs in the blood reflects the proliferative history of T cells at the population level 17. Several studies have shown that the TREC number decreases with age 18 and even at the age of 100 years there is still a significant number of TRECs suggesting a significant thymic activity 19. Age-related thymic involution directly correlates with the decrease in thymopoiesis and with that of TREC number measured in the periphery. The number of TRECs has been shown to display a sexual dimorphism. In humans females have significantly higher sjTREC levels than age-matched males aged between 20 and 60 years old with a maintained but less significant difference after the age of 60 20 18.Together these data indicate that in adults the thymus is still active as shown by the number of lymphocytes it contains as well as by the presence of recent thymic emigrants assessed by TREC level in the peripheral blood lymphocytes. Thymic Follicular Hyperplasia Clinical and Immunological Associations.
Why and how an involuted thymic tissue becomes the site of hyperplasia and allows the development of lymphoid follicles including a large number of B cells is still a mystery.Also the incidence of thymic hyperplasia in MG is still confusing. In the literature the percentage of patients with thymic hyperplasia varies from 28 22 to 92 % 23. This high variability is probably due to clinical and epidemiological features that could influence the degree of follicular hyperplasia. These parameters likely include the age the sex corticosteroid treatment and the extent of involution of the thymus.In this review we have performed a study of MG patients who have undergone thymectomy in the Marie Lannelongue Hospital between 1980 and 2015 but without thymoma. Altogether the whole group of patients includes 1035 MGpatients 780 F 255 M. Since we previously showed that corticosteroids can reduce the number of GCs 24 we first analyzed the immunopathological data after excluding patients treated with corticosteroids. A particular chapter on the effects of corticosteroids is included in a later section.The degree of follicular hyperplasia was graded as follows zero no GCs one few GCs two many GCs and three numerous GCs.
1a the youngest patients display the highest degree of follicular hyperplasia while the older patients over 50 display a low degree of hyperplasia. Similar observation was done when analyzing the lymphocyte/adipous L/A ratio Fig. 1b end. This ratio evaluated by the pathologists of the Marie Lannelongue Hospital signifies the degree of involution of the thymus. A high ratio superior to 0.7 indicates an abundant lympho-epithelial thymus while a low ratio inferior to 0.4 indicates a poverty of lymphocytes and the replacement by adipose and connective tissue. Thus there is a strong correlation between the follicular hyperplasia and the L/A ratio r0.3334 p<0.0001. The representation of the L/A ratio according to GC number suggests that GCs need a favorable lympho-epithelial-rich environment to develop as the mean value of the L/A ratio SD varied from 0.500.26 in the group GC0 to 0.730.15 in the group GC3. The groups GC1 and GC2 had intermediate L/A values Fig. 1c.These data suggest that patients over 50 with a very low L/A ratio are at lower risk of developing follicular hyperplasia. Indeed in the group of patients over 50 n68 74 % do not have any GC detectable in their thymus while in the younger groups the percentage of GC0 is much lower.
There is a clear break after 50 years Fig. 1d.Thus this analysis emphasizes the links between the grade of the follicular hyperplasia the L/A ratio and the age of the patients. Thymic Hyperplasia IsMainly a Disease of YoungWomen. We then analyzed the strength of the interactions between thymic follicular hyperplasia gender and age. In this investigation we excluded patients without GC to focus the analysis in patients presenting an abnormal follicular hyperplasia GC1 GC2 and GC3. Figure 2 shows striking differences between the curve of females and males. Males display more or less a flat curve according to age while females have a clear peak between 20 and 40 years. The female to male ratio is around 4 below the age of 30 it peaks at the age of 40 years with a ratio of 8.7 and decreases to a ratio lower than two after the age of 50 years.Altogether among patients presenting a thymic follicular hyperplasia 80 % are women which strengthens the notionthat thymic follicular hyperplasia is mainly a disease of females but our data highlight that the sexual dimorphism is age-dependent since the female/male ratio is reduced after the age of 50.This sexual dimorphis.
The relationship between the hormonal status and B cell development and function has already been underlined. First females produce elevated levels of antibodies in both physiological and autoimmune conditions 25. This observation was confirmed in this study where the amount of anti-AChR antibodies was significantly higher in females than males not shown. Second the production of naive B lymphocytes in bone marrow is reduced during pregnancy or after experimental elevation of estrogen 26. Third BAFF that increases the survival of plasmablasts stimulates peripheral B cell proliferation antibody production and isotype class switching27 has a greater expression in immune cells isolated from C57BL/6 females compared with male mice 28.Estrogens appear to be involved in this gender bias. Indeed estrogens have a stimulatory and protective effect on B cells 29 and immunoglobulin production 30. They also modulate antigen presentation and enhance B cell responses by increasing survival of autoreactive B cells 30 31. In mice estrogens increase the survival of autoreactive B cells thus contributing to disease severity in the model of arthritis 32 33. Also a link among autoimmunity the formation of GCs and estrogen receptors ERs has been previously reported.
The deletion of this cell subset in male NZBxNZWF1 mice inducesFig. 1 Degree of thymic hyperplasia and L/A ratio in relation to age. aA total of 789 corticoid-untreated MG patients were divided in five groups according to the age <20 years n  143 2130 years n  259 31 40 years n  195 4150 years n  100 and >50 years n  92. The degree of hyperplasia was graded as follows no GCO few GCs  1 many GCs  2 numerous GCs  3. A clear correlation between the grade of hyperplasia and the age could be observed. b A similar analysis was done on the L/A lymphocytic/adipous ratio that is determined by the surface occupied by the lympho-epithelial area among the total tissue. This value is between 100 % only lympho-epithelial tissue and 0 only adipous and connective tissue. Because of missing data the number of cases here is 419 corticoid-untreated MG patients <20 years n  78 2130 years n  140 3140 years n  119 41 50 years n 49 and >50 years n 33. The data are represented as themean value  SEM. A clear correlation between the L/A ratio and the age could be observed p< 0.0001. c Correlation between the L/A ratio and the degree of hyperplasia. The mean value of L/A ratio was calculated for each subgroup of patients according to the GC number.
The group GC0 is significantly different from the other groups. d Analysis of GC0 as a function of age. The percentage of GC0 was calculated from the 789 corticoid-untreated MG patients. Confirming the data shown in Fig. 1a most patients older than 50 years do not display any GC while this percentage is much lower in the other age categories. The data are represented as the mean value  SEM. The non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA test followed by Dunns multiple comparisons tests was used for figures a b and cincreased levels of antibodies and development of GCs 35 suggesting that this cell subset does not have the same functions in male and female NZBxNZWF1 models.Altogether the female bias observed for thymic follicular hyperplasia is likely due to the balance between estrogen and testosterone and their effects on immune cells and molecules. Thymic Follicular Hyperplasia a Source of Anti-AChR Antibodies. One of the major still unanswered questions in MG disease is the potential link between the thymic pathology and the antibodies to AChR.The anti-AChR antibodies are a crucial element of diagnosis as false positive are very uncommon 1.
First we compared the level of hyperplasia in the seropositive and seronegative MG patients by dividing the patients into five groups 1 seronegative <0.5 nM seropositive/low 0.5 to 5 nM seropositive/intermediate 5 to 20 and 2050 nM and seropositive/high >50 nM Fig. 3a end. The mean value of GC grade is very low in the seronegative and seropositive/low groups but it reaches a plateau as early as the serum titer is higher than 5 nM. The percentage of GC0 was less than 10 % for the seropositive/intermediate and high groups about 30 % for the seropositive/low and 52 % for the seronegative group.To go further in the correlation between GC grade and antiAChR antibodies we performed the reciprocal analysis in the seropositive group of MG patients higher than 0.5 nM. Acorrelation was found between the level of antibodies and the grade of the follicular hyperplasia. The p value was <1020 in the group of seropositiveMG patients n555 non-parametric Spearman correlation test. Accordingly when the group of patients was divided into four categories according to the grade of GCs it appears that patients with GC0 have significantly lower titer than the other groups p<0.0001 versus GC1 GC2 or GC3.
3b.These results confirm a correlation between the level of anti-AChR antibodies in the sera and the degree of follicular hyperplasia. The links of thymic hyperplasia with anti-AChR antibodies have been suggested by several arguments from the literature 1 Our previous analysis of clinical links between thymus pathologies and anti-AChR antibodies has shown that patients with thymic hyperplasia have higher titer than thymoma or involuted thymuses 37 but in that study the degree of hyperplasia was not analyzed and the number of patients was limited 2 thymic B cells produce anti-AChR antibodies in vitro 38 39. Besides thymic B cells are activated and do not require additional activation to produce antiAChR antibodies 40 3 specific activity anti-AChR/total IgG is higher in the thymus compared to the other immune organs 41 42 4 finally immunodeficient mice grafted with MG thymic tissue or dissociated thymic cells have antiAChR antibodies in the serum 43 44.The current analysis strengthens and extends these studies by showing a link between the degree of follicular hyperplasia and the serum level of anti. -AChR antibodies.
However the reduction in the anti-AChR antibody titer after thymectomy is not striking 45 46 possibly because plasma cells and memory B cells are not only located in the thymus but also in the other immune organs including peripheral blood lymph nodes and bone marrow. Chronic Development of Ectopic GCs in MG Patients. Another question that is still unanswered is the relationship between the degree of hyperplasia and the duration of the symptoms in other words we wondered whether the thymic GCs are developed at the beginning of the disease or if they accumulate with the duration of the disease. The analysis of the correlation between the duration of the signs and the GC number did not show any significant correlation Fig. 3c end. There was a tendency for a longer duration in the groups with no and few GC while the groups GC2 and GC3 had a slightly shorter duration. These results suggest that GC formation israther an early event and that the chronicity of the disease reduces slightly but not significantly the GC number.In physiological conditions the development of GCs is induced within 3 days after T cell-dependent antigen immunization.
After a few weeks GC reactions disappear and the involved FDC remain within the primary follicles 47. The high level of follicular hyperplasia in AChR-MG patients whatever the duration of the disease assumes that B cells migrate to the thymus continuously and suggests that the resolution of GCs in the MG human thymus is not correctly controlled. Several hypotheses could explain the chronic maintenance of the GCs 1 the permanent presence of the antigen. Indeed it was shown that the persistence of an antigen contributes to the maintenance of the interactions between T follicular helper Tfh and B cells in the GC structures 48. The antigen AChR is known to be present in the thymus 49 50. 2 A defect in apoptosis within the GC is also a possibility. The phase of resolution of the GCs is associated with higher apoptosis and with big macrophages engulfing B cells 51. Bcl-2 is not expressed in GCs of control tonsil but is highly expressed in thymic GCs of MG patients suggesting a protection toward apoptosis of these cells 52. 3 Finally a defect in Treg cells could also contribute to the maintenance of the GCs. It was previously shown that disruption of Treg cells has a significant impact on the development of the GCs 53.
Patients with an onset of 20 years could still have a significant number of GCs suggesting that either the antigen is chronically expressed and/or that the resolution of the autoimmune response is not efficiently controlled. Thymic Follicular Hyperplasia Molecular Mechanisms. The presence of ectopic or tertiary lymphoid follicles inMG is highly reminiscent of what is observed in the target organ of other inflammatory autoimmune diseases. Indeed B cell expansion or lymphoid structures resembling secondary lymphoid organs develop in many AIDs 54. They can be found in the thyroid in Hashimotos thyroiditis patients 55 in salivary glands in SS patients 56 in synovium in RA patients 57 in cerebrospinal fluid in MS patients 58 in the liver in PBC patients 59 in the muscle in dermatomyositis and polymyositis patients 60 and in the blood in SLE patients 61. These structures promote antigen-specific humoral responsesduring chronic inflammation in the diseased organ. In MG there is no evidence of a B cell response in the muscle considered as the target organ but the increased B cell number and the lymphoid follicles are found in the thymus in early onset MG patients 62 Fig. 2 end. It is therefore tempting to speculate that the thymus is the main pathogenic organ inMGAChR.
To approach the molecular mechanisms occurring in the thymus ofMGpatients we used the DNAmicroarray approach a technology that represents a powerful tool to compare genome features among individuals at the tissue and cell levels 63 64. In a transcriptome analysis we investigated the molecular processes overrepresented in MG follicular thymic hyperplasia compared with age- and sex-matched control thymus. The methods used for the analysis have been previously detailed 65 66. By combining the list of molecular processes with that of cellular components Tables 1 and 2 it appears that the genes involved in the process of antigen presentation via MHC antigens class II molecules Table 1 combined with genes related to lysosome and Golgi apparatus Table 2 are particularly over-represented in MG thymus compared to normal thymic samples. Presumably a response to external stimulation will cause a sustained antigen presentation process and lead to an antigenic response including the production of antiAChR antibodies. The autoantigen AChR is expressed in different thymic cell types namely myoid and epithelial cells.
However myoid cells are not the unique cells to express AChR. We have previously described that medullary TECs mTECs express some of the AChR subunits 49.The external stimulation that could occur in MG patients is not yet defined but it has been shown that the thymus is the potential site of various infections 69. We have previously observed that the agonist of TLR3 has striking effects in TECs. It induces an increased cytokine and chemokineproduction together with a huge augmentation of -AChR expression 70. Therefore an external stimulation such as a viral infection could favor the overexpression of AChR and its processing and presentation.Several cathepsins are involved in antigen processing and degradation of the invariant chain and thereby in antigen presentation by HLA class II molecules 71. Interestingly Tolosa et al. observed a higher expression of cathepsin V in thymuses fromMGpatients compared with controls 72 thus supporting a highly active process of antigenic presentation in the thymus of MG patients. This hypothesis is also strengthened by recent findings showing the recruitment of antigenpresenting cells APCs inside and around thymic high endothelial venules HEVs located in proximity to GCs and that are in high numbers in the thymus of MG patients 73.
The transcriptome analysis also shows an interesting similarity between the thymic pathology of MG and other autoimmune diseases Table 3. This similarity was found in the category of BGenetic Association Database that includes genetic association data from complex disorders. This analysis indicates that many genes of predisposition are common for MG and other autoimmune diseases such as SLE Sjogrens syndrome thyroiditis or multiple sclerosis although the immunological mechanisms involved in these diseases are dissimilar. A detailed analysis of the genes involved in these diseases identified 16 genes deregulated in the thymus of patients known to be genetically associated with at least three other different autoimmune pathologies. Table 4 lists these genes. They are basically genes involved in the immune response HLA-DR and DQ CD14 CD19 a costimulatory gene CD80 cytokine IL-1B and chemokine CCL-5 but also a gene involved in oxidative stress NOS and the protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 PTPN22.Most of these genes are genetically associatedwith MG 74. However the finding here that the level of expression of these genes was deregulated in MG thymus suggests a link between the genotype and the functional phenotype.
PTPN22 encodes for the lymphoid protein tyrosine phosphatase Lyp which is expressed exclusively in immune cells. PTPN22 is a negative regulator of Tcell activation via its dephosphorylation of the activating tyrosines of Lck Fyn and ZAP-70 and of phosphorylation sites on TCR CD3 Vav and Valosin-containing protein 79.The importance of PTPN22 in lymphocyte activation has been confirmed in the PTPN22-deficient mice. These mice accumulate effector-memory T cells in peripheral lymphoid tissues which cause lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly. Furthermore T cells from these deficient mice have increased TCR-induced phosphorylation of tyrosine residues and cellular activation. Also while no intrinsic B cell abnormality was observed these mice develop more germinal centers and high serum concentrations of antibodies 80.In humans a single base change in the coding region of this gene C1858T resulting in an arginine to tryptophan amino acid substitution at position 620 R620W is observed at a high frequency in patients affected by autoimmune diseases 75. The disease incidence is up to 2.5-fold higher in carriers of the C1858T mutation compared to those without themutation.
This mutation leads to a decrease in TCR and BCR signaling 76. Also carriers of this PTPN22 risk allele display high frequencies of autoreactive B cell clones compared with those from non-carriers suggesting defective central and peripheral B cell tolerance checkpoints 76.In MG patients the W620 allele was found associated with the disease and the W620 carriers showed a significantly higher number of autoantibody-producing cells than noncarriers when incubated with the AChR autoantigens 78. In the current transcriptome study the expression of PTPN22 was found to be decreased in the MG thymus compared with age- and gender-matched controls Table 4. Interestingly humans carrying the PTPN22 R620W polymorphism have been suggested to have a greater proportion of PTPN22lo T and B cells than those carrying wild-type PTPN22 81. This observation suggests that the R620W substitution might affect human PTPN22 expression. It is tempting to speculate that the decreased expression of PTPN22 in the thymus of MG patients is related to the increased B cell number and GCs resembling the data observed in PTPN22 KO mice.
Effects of Corticoids on Follicular Hyperplasia. Natural and synthetic glucocorticoids remain major antiinf lammatory and immunosuppressive therapies . Corticosteroid especially prednisolone is the treatment of choice for many MG patients 85 86. However its clinical efficacy is limited by its severe side effects particularly during long-term treatments including osteoporosis increased risk of infections as well as triggering or worsening of diabetes. Corticosteroids Reduce the Degree of Follicular Hyperplasia Together with Reduction of the Lympho-epithelial Parenchyma. We have previously demonstrated that corticosteroids reduce the surface and the number of GCs by using immunofluorescence on sections of MG thymus in a small number of female patients 24. Extending that study we compared here in our large cohort of patients the degree of hyperplasia in corticosteroid-treated n  125 and untreated patients n638. Since seronegative patients could induce a bias in the analysis they were excluded in the current analysis. Figure 4a shows the mean values of the grade of hyperplasia in all patients or divided according to the sex. In the whole group of patients the decrease by corticoids of the GC gradewas highly significant p<0.0001 but that was principally due to the female group.
Analysis according to the different grades of hyperplasia shows that when treated with corticosteroid most patients had a GC0 grade X220.1 p<0.0003 Fig. 4b.Very few articles have analyzed the effects of corticosteroid on the development of GCs and they were performed in animal models or in vitro. Rescue of GC cells from human tonsils was shown to be blocked in vitro by the glucocorticoid prednisolone at pharmacological concentrations 87. A transgenic mouse model of chronic stress in which corticotropin-releasing hormone CRH is overexpressed in the central nervous system has been created to mimic patients treated with chronic systemic glucocorticoids 88. These mice have severe perturbations in leukocyte populations with a predominant decrease in B cell populations 89. Interestingly they display standard pre-immune antibody titers and primary IgM responses to immunization but have a poor isotype switching and an altered antibody repertoire upon secondary immunization. Also in these CRH-transgenic mice as well as in mice treated with exogenous corticosterone their GC formation after immunization was compromised and follicular dendritic cell networks were altered.
3a b a relationship between the degree of hyperplasia and the serum level of anti-AChR antibodies and yet although corticosteroids reduce the grade of thymic follicular hyperplasia it has no significant effect on antiAChR antibodies not shown. In support of these results our previous transcriptome analysis revealed that the expression of the Ig genes spotted on the arrays was not reduced upon corticotherapy 66. Thus at the cell level it is likely that corticosteroids prevent the formation of GCs but do not prevent the thymic B cells from producing antibodies. Since the GC is the site of isotype switching we assume that theinhibition of GC formation will have an impact on this process resulting in the production of less pathogenic antibodies. The pathogenic antibodies in AChR-MG are of IgG1 and IgG3 subclasses and can bind the complement 91. It is therefore possible that corticosteroid therapy reduces the production of these specific IgG subclasses but this hypothesis deserves to be investigated.Also corticosteroids have a strong effect on the L/A ratio in the thymus p<0.0001 Fig. 4c end.
Again the effect was highly significant in females p<0.0002 but not in males p0.12. This effect on thymic parenchyma is supported by data showing that corticosteroids profoundly alter human thymocyte subsets 92 as well as thymocytes in mice 93.These data indicate that corticosteroids reduce the number of GCs together with a reduction of the L/A ratio although they do not have a direct effect on the whole level of the antiAChR antibody production. Molecular Mechanisms of Action of Corticosteroids. Glucocorticoids are known to inhibit the expression of multiple activated inflammatory genes that encode for cytokines chemokines adhesion molecules inflammatory enzymes and receptors 94. Glucocorticoids regulate many physiological processes through genomic and non-genomic effects. To approach the molecular mechanisms of action of corticosteroids we used the DNAmicroarray approach as described above by comparing thymuses from untreated patients with patients treated with corticosteroids. Effects on Inflammation and Angiogenesis. Our transcriptome analysis of the human thymus allowed us to discover potential signaling pathways targeted by glucocorticoids.
Since type I IFN can reduce the threshold for B cell induction 96 97 the reduction in type I IFN by glucocorticoid could limit the effects on B cells although our transcriptome analysis did not detect changes in the level of expression of IgG production 66.By contrast to untreated MG patients glucocorticoidtreated patients were shown to display normalized levels of the chemokines known to orchestrate GC formation in secondary lymphoid organs namely CXCL13 CCL21 and CCL19 24 66. Also we demonstrated that corticosteroidtreatment tended to normalize the number of high endothelial venules HEVs in correlation with decreased number of GCs 73.Thus by reducing the number of HEVs and production of chemokines that are able to attract Tand B cells in the thymus corticosteroids probably limit the entry in the thymus by activated cells and prevent the formation of novel GCs. However it is possible that the GCs already present pursue their life and disappear after several weeks. Principal biological Processes Altered by Corticoids. Completing the microarray analysis we summarize in Table 5 the main biological processes overrepresented in the corticosteroid-treated group compared to the untreated patients.
The significance of the skeletal muscle development category is unclear but the effects of glucocorticoids on regulation of protein metabolism in skeletal muscle are well known 98. Myoid cells that are similar to myoblasts are present in the medullary area of the thymus and express high levels of AChR 68. It is therefore possible that glucocorticoids also act on these cells in addition to their effects on T B and epithelial cells.By analyzing in detail the list of genes deregulated in corticosteroid-treated and -untreated MG patients we showed that only 5 % of the glucocorticoid-modulated genes were overlapping with the genes dysregulated in MG 66. This observation indicates that glucocorticoid treatment alters the expression of a large number of genes that have never been shown to be involved in MG thymus defects. Whether the deregulation of some of these genes justifies the broad adverse effects of glucocorticoid treatment or contributes to the therapeutic effects is not known. Evidence of Acetylation Process. Our transcriptome analysis also revealed that acetylation is the molecular process that underwent the most significant changes in the group of corticosteroid-treated patients p value <107 Table 6.
Indeed it was shown that histone acetylation is an important mechanism of action of glucocorticoids on inflammatory genes.Glucocorticoids act through the glucocorticoid receptor a member of the steroid receptor superfamily of ligandactivated transcription factors. Upon binding to glucocorticoid glucocorticoid receptors located in the cytosol are translocated to the nucleus where they exert transcriptionaleffects. Activation of glucocorticoid-responsive genes involves recruitment of co-activator proteins that acetylate core histones resulting in chromatin remodeling and initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II resulting in gene activation 99. Acetylation of glucocorticoid receptors occurs before nuclear translocation. The acetylated glucocorticoid receptors are deacetylated by histone deacetylase 2 HDAC 2 which is necessary for glucocorticoid receptors to be able to inhibit NF-kB activation of inflammatory genes hence promoting its anti-inflammatory actions 100. Reduced HDAC2 activity and expression are reduced in some diseases where patients respond poorly to corticosteroids 101.Glucocorticoid receptors are expressed in thymic T cells at higher levels than T cells isolated from the spleen 102.
A potential explanation is a difference in the amounts of glucocorticoid receptors in the thymus of male and female that has been investigated in rats 103. The concentrations of glucocorticoid receptors are lower in females. As a result it is possible that these receptors are more easily saturated in females than in males. One can speculate that higher doses of corticosteroids are necessary for males to obtain similar effects as in females. Also women have higher corticosteronecortisol concentrations compared to men 104 which could also explain the higher sensitivity of females to corticoid therapy. However corticosteroids can also affect TEC as suggested by the Bregulation of epithelial cell proliferation category listed in Table 5. Also mTECs expressing Aire are highly sensitive to corticosteroids 105. Thus the differential expression of Aire in males and females 106 could also contribute to the sexual dimorphism observed for the effects of corticosteroids. Role of Thymic Epithelial Cells in MG Thymus. The epithelial cells of the thymus play a key role in thymic selection mechanisms. The precursor cells reaching the thymus interact with cortical and then medullary epithelial cells to end their differentiation.
Since lymphocytes in development interact continuously with the epithelial network we assume that TECs in MG thymus contribute to the thymic pathology. The thymic medullary epithelium is altered in MG patients with very dense areas around the GCs which expectedly offer an abnormal environment to the developing thymocytes during the negative selection. The number of Hassal Corpuscles per unit area of the thymic medulla is significantly elevated in the thymus of MG patients with thymic hyperplasia 108 highlighting the alteration of the medullary epithelial network.We will discuss here the potential roles of TECs in MG thymic pathology including the production of cytokines and chemokines the role of AIRE and their function in Treg generation. Production of Cytokines and Chemokines. Several studies have demonstrated that medullary TECs from MG patients when cultured in vitro overproduce proinflammatory cytokines. TECs from hyperplastic thymuses spontaneously produce high amounts of interleukin-1 IL-1 compared to controls. Also the level of follicular hyperplasia is correlated to in vitro IL-1 production by TECs suggesting a role for IL-1 in the expansion of thymic lymphoid follicles 109.
Since IL-6 contributes to the generation of Th17 cells this environment could alter the balance between functional Treg cells and inflammatory cells particularly Th17 cells that are indeed increased in MG patients 83.Several chemokines are also overproduced in mTEC from MG patients. CCL5 that plays an active role in recruiting leukocytes into inflammatory sites is increased in the hyperplastic thymus of MG patients and CCL5 levels are abnormally augmented in TECs from MG compared to non-MG patients upon induction by adhesion-related stimuli 111. One of its receptor CCR1 is significantly increased on CD4 and CD8 Tcells in MG and reduced after therapy suggesting an involvement of the CCL5/CCR1 signaling pathway in the migration of peripheral T cells to the thymus 111.In MG patients CXCL13 was also demonstrated to be overexpressed in the thymus and mTECs were shown to overproduce CXL13 24. This chemokine is selectively chemotactic for B cells and elicits its effects by interacting with the chemokine receptor CXCR5. In secondary lymphoid organs CXCL13 is known to participate in GC formation 83. The number of CXCR5 follicular helper T cells is increased in the thymus and peripheral blood ofMG patients 86.
Role of mTECs in the Generation of Treg Cells. Thymic Treg tTreg cells are generated in the thymus medulla mainly from CD4 single positive precursors. Different subsets of stromal cells have been shown to favor tTreg cell development. In a mouse model it was shown that cortical TECs cTECs can be sufficient for tTreg cell differentiation 112. In humans plasmacytoid DCs can support tTreg cell differentiation under CD40L and IL-3 activation 113. Dendritic cells DCs also promote tTreg cell differentiation after activation by the thymus stromal lymphopoietin produced by medullary TECs mTECs from Hassalls corpuscles 114 115. AlsomTECs contribute to the selection of tTreg cells via T cell receptor TCR activation andMHC class II presentation 116.One can wonder how the major histological changes and remodeling of MG thymus could affect the development of Treg cells in MG thymus. In humans we previously showed that cultured mTECs promote the generation of tTreg cells and favor their function via soluble factors 117. This effect involves the proliferation of newly generated CD4CD25 cells from CD4CD25 cells and protection of Treg cells from cell death via Bcl-2 and mitochondrial membrane potential changes.
InMG the number of Treg is normal but their function is defective. The transcriptome analysis of these cells demonstrates a shift of these cells toward a Th17 phenotype 83. Whether the functional and anatomical changes of mTEC in MG thymus could influence thymic Treg generation needs to be investigated. Potential Defect in Negative Selection and Role of AIRE. Medullary TECs play a fundamental role in the self-tolerance education of thymocytes through their expression of tissuespecific antigens TSA. The level of expression of these TSA in the thymus seems to be a key factor for tolerization. The expression of TSA is frequently controlled by the autoimmune regulator AIRE that is a transcription factor expressed in the medulla of the thymus and controls the mechanism of central tolerance. In mice thymic Aire expression levels correlate with the expression of TSA genes 118 and thymic deletion induced by antigen is absent in Aire homozygotes and less efficient in heterozygotes 119. Susceptibility to autoimmune models is increased in mice deficient in AIRE 120 121 122.
In several pathophysiological situations it was shown that a decreased level in AIRE is associated with increased autoimmune manifestation. For example reduction in AIRE expression in thymoma is more striking in thymoma patients associated with AIDs than in thymoma patients without AIDs 124. In down syndrome DS patients who are highly susceptible to AIDs 125 the number of AIRE cells in the thymus is lower about half number of cells compared to controls 126.Whether a reduced level of AIRE contributes to a defective negative selection process in MG is unknown. Expression of AIRE is not defective in MG hyperplasia not shown but since the thymus is the site of inflammation expression of AIRE could have been altered in the inflammatory environment. It would be very interesting to determine the level of AIRE before the onset of the disease but this is difficult toassess as thymic samples are available only when diagnosed MG patients are thymectomized.We recently showed that AIRE is differentially expressed in men and women. This factor is less expressed in adult females due to the effects of estrogens that increase the methylation status of AIRE promoter 106. The reduced expression of AIRE in females could lead to a less efficient process of negative selection compared with males.
ncomplete negative selection process and inefficient Treg generation. Concluding Remarks. This review summarizes data on thymic pathology in MG patients and provides some explanations about the positive effects of thymectomy in some subgroups of patients 128. Thymectomy is a common therapy for MG patients namely those with thymic abnormalities including thymoma and follicular hyperplasia. Whether thymectomy in nonthymomatous MG patients has any benefit has been asked and a randomized trial comparing the clinical outcomes of non-thymomatous MG patients who underwent a thymectomy or not should be published soon. However many articles have described the clinical outcome of thymectomy and have been recently summarized 129. Overall the remission rate for non-thymomatousMG patients is between 38 and 72% up to 10 years of follow-up. Patients with thymic hyperplasia show the best complete stable remission rates in most studies. Also age lower than 45 years showed a higher probability of achieving complete stable remission during follow-up 128 compatible with our data showing that thymic abnormalities are mainly found in patients before the age of 45 years.Our major conclusions are as follows1. The development of hyperplasia is linked to the high production of antibodies to AChR.
The role of the hormones including estrogens is very likely. 2 end. The patients present a chronicity of the GCs. Even patients with a disease onset 20 years before thymectomy could show a significant follicular hyperplasia. This chronicity could be due to the persistence of the antigen the defect of Treg cells or resistance to apoptosis.3. Patients treated with prednisolone show a significantly reduced number of GCs and L/A ratio compared to untreated ones. This therapy is associated with decreased expression of chemokines CXCL13 CCL21 CCL19 and reduced number of HEV. At the molecular level acetylation appears to be highly involved one can assume that histone acetylation is one important mechanism of the corticosteroids to reduce the production of chemokines and cytokines which subsequently limit the entry of the B cells in the thymus and lessen the development of the GCs. However these molecular effects are not limited to chemokines since the effects of corticosteroids appear to alter the different thymic cell types including T cells epithelial cells and myoid cells. 4 end. TEC contribute to the pathology of the MG thymus by several mechanisms.
Many patients have highly abnormal hyperplasia especially the young females that is directly related to the anti-AChR antibodies level. It is rather reasonable that removing the thymus that is a source of inflammation and antibody-producing B cells should have a benefit for MG patients displaying these immunological features. Whether it could also have a benefit in patients who do not exhibit changes in their thymus should be asked. An important remark is that corticosteroids evidently reduce the extent of the follicular hyperplasia by mechanisms described in this review and therefore thymic pathology should be interpreted with cautious in patients treated with steroids. However the clinical effects of thymectomy are not observed in all patients likely because antibodyproducing B cells could also develop in the periphery. This could explain why thymectomy after a short duration of symptoms is a favorable prognostic factor 130. Finally corticosteroids represent a sort of a chemical thymectomy as it affects all the thymic subsets. However what happens after stopping this therapy in the thymus is not known and a rebound effect could be questioned as it was shown in mouse thymus 93. Compliance with Ethical Standards.
Berrih-Aknin. STEROID TREATMENT FOR MYASTHENIA GRAVIS. Except in mild cases and in patients whose only therapy is thymectomy patients with myasthenia gravis MG require immunosuppressant therapy to suppress the destructive activity of acetylcholine receptor antibodies at the neuromuscular junction. Oral medications are sufficient to control this disease in most patients however patients with severe MG associated with significant bulbar symptomatology may require plasma exchange PE or intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg therapy as well as oral immunosuppressant therapy. Therefore the selection of an oral immunosuppressant medication is an important consideration for clinicians treating patients with MG. Corticosteroids are used as first-line medical therapy for moderate-to-severe MG. Although steroids are efficacious large doses are often necessary and frequently produce side effects. Other medications have been used to treat MG but in most instances as secondary treatments. Assuming that corticosteroids should be used first these latter medications are reserved for steroid treatment failures or as an adjunct to steroids. Consideration of nonsteroid immunosuppressant medications as firstline therapy may be appropriate studies are necessary to compare their activity to corticosteroids.
The adverse effects of corticosteroids are well known and common. Corticosteroids can cause glucose intolerance weight gain depression appearance changes mood swings hypokalemia hypertension and septic ulcers. There are also many long-term side effects including avascular necrosis of the hip osteoporosis steroid-withdrawal symptoms skin atrophy cushingoid features ecchymoses and impaired wound healing. The initial dose of prednisone recommended to treat MG is 60 mg/day. There is a high incidence of chronic adverse reactions at this dose. It has been my experience that most patients put on this highsteroid dose for any period of time will develop at least one of these problems. In many instances these side effects are ameliorated to some degree following dose reduction. If there were no safer alternatives these side effects might be worth risking to control this serious life-threatening disease. ISSUES  OPINIONS. end. STEROID TREATMENT FOR MYASTHENIA GRAVIS. end. Steroids Are Overutilized. end. MICHAEL H. RIVNER MD.
may require plasma exchange PE or intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg therapy as well as oral immunosuppressant therapy. Therefore the selection of an oral immunosuppressant medication is an important consideration for clinicians treating patients with MG.Corticosteroids are used as first-line medical therapy for moderate-to-severe MG. Although steroids are efficacious large doses are often necessary and frequently produce side effects.10 Other medications have been used to treat MG but in most instances as secondary treatments. Assuming that corticosteroids should be used first these latter medications are reserved for steroid treatment failures or as an adjunct to steroids. Consideration of nonsteroid immunosuppressant medications as firstline therapy may be appropriate studies are necessary to compare their activity to corticosteroids. It is my opinion that nonsteroid immunosuppressant medications can successfully treat most cases of moderate-to-severe MG with fewer adverse effects than with corticosteroids.The adverse effects of corticosteroids are well known and common.69 Corticosteroids can cause glucose intolerance weight gain depression appearance changes mood swings hypokalemia hypertension and septic ulcers.
It has been my experience that most patients put on this highsteroid dose for any period of time will develop at least one of these problems. In many instances these side effects are ameliorated to some degree following dose reduction. If there were no safer alternatives these side effects might be worth risking to control this serious life-threatening disease. NON-STEROIDAL ALTERNATIVE TREATMENTS. Fortunately there are effective alternative treatments for MG. Thymectomy is commonly used. Medical immunosuppressant therapy is necessary for many patients because they are unsuitable candidates for thymectomy or require medical therapy in addition to thymectomy. Despite widespread use there have been no controlled studies comparing thymectomy to optimal medical therapy. PE and IVIg are efficacious and have the added benefit of rapid onset but because of their cost and invasiveness they are usually not suited for long-term therapy. In most instances orally administered treatment is preferred parenteral therapy is reserved for severely affected patients.
2002 American Association of Electrodiagnostic Medicine. Published by John Wiley  Sons Inc.Issues  Opinions Steroids in Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE January 2002 115destruction of the neuromuscular junction by acetylcholine receptor antibodies.Besides steroids five different immunosuppressant medications have been used in patients with MG. Azathioprine at a dose of 23 mg/kg per day in divided doses has been recognized as efficacious.468 The main problem with this therapy is that delayed onset before clinical improvement may take up to 6 months.10 Dose-related anemia and liver failure are azathioprines most common side effects. Unlike the adverse effects seen with corticosteroids these side effects are usually detected only by blood tests and usually resolve with dose reduction and are asymptomatic. The association of azathioprine with neoplasia has rarely been seen in patients with myasthenia.Cyclosporine has been used clinically to treat MG both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to corticosteroids.111 When combined with corticosteroids it has been shown to improve efficacy and the steroid dose may often be lowered substantially. The typical dose is 2.5 mg/kg given twice daily. Clinically significant responses are seen between 2 and 6 weeks.
Effective disease control is often obtained with low serum drug levels of cyclosporine. Common side effects hypertension gingival hyperplasia and nephrotoxicity are usually dose related and abate with dose reduction. Neoplasia has also been reported in renal transplant and some MG patients given this drug.1Several studies have used high-dose methotrexate to treat MG.2 A lower dose of 2.510 mg given as a single oral dose weekly may be as effective. When used for chemotherapy at a much higher dose neurotoxic side effects are quite severe. Lower dose methotrexate has a relatively benign toxicity profile and has been used extensively for rheumatoid arthritis. At these lower doses principal side effects are hematuria rash and photosensitivity. Although I have no experience in using this drug as initial therapy it has been effective for patients who have failed therapy with other drugs.Cyclophosphamide at a dose of 1.55 mg/kg has also been used to treat MG.71012 Side effects include alopecia cystitis bladder cancer leukopenia nausea vomiting and anorexia. Cyclophosphamide has been associated with an increased incidence of cancer. A lower dose regimen with this drug at 100200 mg has been implemented to reduce the incidence of side effects with some success.
Experience with this medication is limited and the full side-effect profile is less known but it has been used successfully in renal transplant patients. DISADVANTAGES OF STEROID THERAPY. In my opinion the high comfort level of most clinicians using prednisone is not justified. The many significant side effects associated with prednisone make this drug undesirable. Most patients placed on prednisone at a dose of 60 mg/day experience some undesirable side effects. This compares unfavorably with the clinically silent laboratory adverse effects seen with nonsteroid immunosuppressant drugs these usually resolve with dose reduction to an often clinically effective lower dose. Many of prednisones side effects such as weight gain and changes in facial features are not easily reversed once the dose is lowered. I have found that patients on prednisone at dosages typical for MG commonly complain about such side effects.The relatively slow onset of efficacy of nonsteroid medications relative to prednisone has often been cited as a disadvantage. I disagree with this reasoning for three reasons. First we do not have good data comparing the onset of clinical benefit with prednisone to that of other medications.
Second prednisone therapy may be associated with initial worsening of symptoms and clinical benefit may not occur for up to 48 weeks.12 Finally slight differences in response onset may not be important because clinically disabling symptoms may be ameliorated temporarily with PE or IVIg. These therapies will produce a benefit for about 1 month giving oral therapies a chance to work. Better clinical trials are needed to compare the efficacy of prednisone with other immunosuppressant medications.Many clinicians are reluctant to use azathioprine or cyclosporine because of the increased incidence of neoplasia seen in renal transplant patients. Accurate data on the incidence of this complication in a population of myasthenic patients are needed.4 This incidence among MG patients might differ from that of renal transplant patients because the latter are usually taking multiple immunosuppressant medications and usually have other medical problems associated with renal failure that might affect the incidence of neoplasia.
There is a misconception that prednisone is a relatively benign drug compared with other immunosuppressant medications. This conclusion is not warranted because of the many significant adverse reactions associated with prednisone which are as great if not greater than that of other immunosuppressant medications. What is even more important is that these adverse effects are usually seen at the dosage of prednisone used to treat MG. Although weight gain and coarse facial features may seem like trivial problems compared to nephrotoxicity patients especially younger ones find them very distressing. Furthermore excess weight will often make the treatment of neuromuscular disease more difficult. As with other medications the dose of prednisone may also be reduced once the myasthenic symptoms come under control. At a lower dose the side effects of prednisone are reduced as well. Perhaps the dose and methods used to initiate steroid therapy should be changed to reduce side effects. The use of lower doses with adjunctive immunosuppressant therapy might produce a better overall therapeutic response.Serious side effects occur with prednisone as well as with the other immunosuppressant medications.
A rise in serum glucose especially in a patient with diabetes mellitus may be quite serious. Ulcers produced by steroids may be life threatening. Avascular necrosis of the hip hypertension osteoporosis and steroid-withdrawal syndrome are all very serious medication side effects.Because MG is a serious life-threatening disease using medications with potentially serious side effects is justified. It is our job as physicians however to use the safest combination of medications available to treat this disease. With the knowledge available at this time I am not sure this medication is prednisone.The author thanks Dr. Elizabeth Ann Sekul and Dr. Farouk Dindar who kindly reviewed preliminary versions of this manuscript. Steroids Have an Important Role. RICHARD S. BEDLACK MD PhD and DONALD B. SANDERS MDDivision of Neurology Duke University Medical Center Trent Drive Room 0395 Box 3403 Durham North Carolina 27710-0001 USA DOI 10.1002/mus.1221Availability of newer options has prompted some investigators to consider steroids overused in myasthenia gravis MG.
ation by disproving these five statements. HOW WE USE STEROIDS. We consider the use of steroids in all MG patients with more than minimal weakness even if limited to ocular muscles. Since 1980 we have used them in two-thirds of our patients usually beginning with prednisone at 60 mg/day. Patients with bulbar or generalized weakness first receive PE or intravenous IVIg to prevent steroid-induced exacerbation. Prednisone is changed to an alternate-day schedule as soon as there is improvement and then slowly tapered. Azathioprine or cyclosporine is added when prednisone alone is not adequately effective or cannot be reduced to acceptable levels. Prednisone is not usually discontinued even when other therapies are used 60% of our patients were still taking prednisone at their last clinic visit. Of these 85% were on an alternate-day schedule at an average dose of 20 mg on alternate days and the others were on a daily schedule at an average dose of 30 mg/day. Of 78 patients taking no prednisone at their last clinic visit 87% had either undergone thymectomy or were taking other immunosuppressive medications. IS TREATMENT BEYOND CHOLINESTERASE INHIBITORS NECESSARY. Steroids would be considered overused if the natural history of MG were benign but unfortunately this is not the case.
First MG treated with cholinesterase inhibitors alone remains disabling. Oosterhuis followed more than 100 nonthymectomized MG patients for more than 10 years on average patients were mildmoderately disabled at diagnosis and remained so over the observation period.7 Osserman followed over 200 nonimmunosuppressed MG patients and 3169% remained less than full-time employable for up to 30 years.2Second most patients worsen in the distribution or severity of their weakness. Of patients with purely ocular muscle weakness at onset 6395% develop generalized disease.810 Among 295 patients reported by Simpson and colleagues 52% worsened over time and 11.5% went into myasthenic crisis often on multiple occasions.10Third although worsening usually occurs earlypatients remain at risk for years. About one-third of ocular MG patients who progress to generalized weakness do so more than 2 years after diagnosis.810 Crisis occurs more than 2 years after diagnosis in 43% of patients and more than 5 years after diagnosis in 27%.8Spontaneous improvement and remissions are unusual.
WHY NOT WAIT AND SEE WHICH PATIENTS. NEED IMMUNOSUPPRESSIONBecause a fortunate few patients spontaneously improve and live normal lives one could thus argue for waiting to treat. We do not advise this because this response is so rare and non-immunosuppressed patients are often disabled by their disease and are at risk for deterioration and crisis.810 Furthermore delayed immunosuppression may produce a less complete response.9. IS CHRONIC TREATMENT WITH IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVE AGENTS NECESSARY. Thymectomy is potentially curative5 intermittent PE or IVIg are efficacious.4 If these were appropriate for everyone and had infrequent side effects and low costs long-term immunosuppression would be unnecessary. Unfortunately thymectomy frequently does not produce complete remission even in carefully selected patients and partial or delayed improvement often necessitates long-term immunosuppression. PE and IVIg produce only transient improvements that last weeks to months. Each course of PE carries a 10% risk of side effects ranging from paresthesias and light-headedness to anaphylaxis hypotension hemorrhage infection and death.
The costs of treating MG patients with intermittent PE or intermittent IVIg monotherapy are exorbitant. DO STEROIDS BENEFIT PATIENTS WITH MYASTHENIA GRAVIS. Steroids would certainly be overused if they were ineffective. There has never been a randomized prospective placebo-controlled trial of prednisone in MG so we compared reports of MG patients taking steroids with those of their non-immunosuppressed118 Issues  Opinions Steroids in Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE January 2002predecessors Table 1. We recognized the problems that arise from comparing patients from different eras and our reliance on vaguely defined outcomes. For this study we considered patients to be improved in remission having exacerbations or disabled if investigators said they were regardless of the assessment criteria which often were never given. When these terms are not used we calculated the percentage of patients showing any improvement while on a given treatment and the percentage showing any exacerbations.With these limitations in mind we concluded that MG patients taking steroids and no other longterm immunosuppressive medications are different from their nonimmunosuppressed predecessors in the following ways Table 1. First MG patients on steroids are likely to improve over time.
Second MG patients on steroids are unlikely to remain disabled. In Pascuzzis series 80% returned to work or usual activities of daily living. Third there is an increased frequency of remissions in MG patients on steroids. Defining remission as no more than minimal eye closure weakness Pascuzzi observed this in 28% of patients. And finally aside from an initial exacerbation of weakness described in what follows MG patients on long-term steroids are unlikely to worsen. Of the patients who significantly improved in the Pascuzzi series and who were followed for up to 17 years only 18% had a subsequent exacerbation which was related mostly to discontinuing or rapidly reducing prednisone. DO THE SIDE EFFECTS AND COSTS OF STEROID TREATMENT OUTWEIGH THE BENEFITS. Steroids produce significant side effects Table 2. Within the first few weeks of treatment approximately 50% of patients experience worsening weakness before improvement.9 Exacerbations are more frequent with high-dose daily steroid regimens butalso occur in up to 19% of patients started on low alternate-day doses. Pretreatment with plasmapheresis can prevent or minimize steroid-induced worsening. The long-term side effects of steroids are well known9 but can be minimized.
Calcium and vitamin D supplements hormone replacement calcitonin and bisphosphonates can be used to minimize steroid-induced bone loss. Hyperglycemia hypertension infections ulcers and glaucoma can usually be treated fairly easily with other medications. The cost of treatment with prednisone at a typical dose for 1 year is only 24 Table 3. ARE THERE OTHER MYASTHENIA GRAVIS TREATMENT OPTIONS THAT ARE PREFERABLE. end. TO STEROIDS. Azathioprine and cyclosporine are alternative immunosuppressives commonly used in MG. One could argue that steroids were overused if these medications were more effective cheaper or had fewer side effects than prednisone.Azathioprine. Two nonblinded randomized studies have failed to demonstrate that azathioprine is more effective than prednisone.16 Retrospective case reports corroborate these results and demonstrate that improvement begins months later with azathioprine than with prednisone. Side effects of azathioprine occur less frequently than those of prednisone but are certainly not less severe Table 2. As many as 20% of patients treated with azathio-Data from published cohorts case series and trials that report outcomes in MG patients on a single treatment.
Long-term azathioprine produces hematological abnormalities that require dose reduction or discontinuation in 729% serum transaminase elevations in 419% and infections in 0.733%. There may be an increased risk of certain malignancies with long-term azathioprine use. A typical daily dose of azathioprine for 1 year costs nearly 100 times that of prednisone Table 3.Cyclosporine. No studies have directly compared the efficacy of cyclosporine with that of prednisone. In a randomized blinded trial patients on cyclosporine were more likely to improve and less likely to have disease exacerbations over 12 months than those on placebo.12 Other series have shown that MG patients taking cyclosporine have a better prognosis than their nonimmunosuppressed predecessors Table 1. A retrospective study reported that 55 of 57 MG patients who took cyclosporine for at least 6 months improved 38 were also taking prednisone.3 Potential side effects of cyclosporine include severe nausea elevated serum creatinine hypertension and headaches.312 As with azathioprine patients on long-term cyclosporine may be at increased risk for certain malignancies. The yearly cost of cyclosporine is more than three times that of azathioprine and 300 times that of prednisone Table 3.
Other long-term immunosuppressives such as mycophenolate mofetil2 may soon prove to be useful for treating MG. There are not enough data yet to compare efficacy and side effects to those with prednisone. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS. The natural history of MG demonstrates that most patients need treatment beyond cholinesterase inhibitors. Thymectomy is not appropriate for all patients and often results in partial or delayed improvement that requires long-term immunosuppression. PE and IVIg are too expensive for long-term management. Azathioprine and cyclosporine have not been shown to be more efficacious than steroids have potential side effects that are as serious as those of steroids and are considerably more expensive. Other immunosuppressives appear promising but are early in their development. Thus steroids remain an important part of MG management.The lack of standardized outcome measures and direct comparison studies make it difficult to determine the best treatment for MG. Attention has recently been directed toward developing diseasespecific outcome measures11 that should facilitate120 Issues  Opinions Steroids in Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE January 2002comparisons of future cohorts and promote head-tohead clinical trials.
Editor Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder of the motor endplate. There is a lack of acetylcholine receptors making patients with myasthenia resistant to succinylcholine and sensitive to nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. Another problem is an interference between the anticholinergic therapy which is essential for a patient with myasthenia and the metabolism of some muscle relaxants and other anaesthetic agents because of the inhibition of pseudocholinesterase in the plasma. In the postoperative period patients with myasthenia often need postoperative mechanical ventilation because of a residual muscular blockade or worsening of myasthenia. In the literature recently one case report appeared discussing the use of sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis. We present a case in which we used rocuronium and sugammadex in the anaesthetic management of a patient with myasthenia gravis undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Copy end. Correspondence.
There is a lack of acetylcholine receptors making patients with myasthenia resistant to succinylcholine and sensitive to nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. Another problem is an interference between the anticholinergic therapy which is essential for a patient with myasthenia and the metabolism of some muscle relaxants and other anaesthetic agents because of the inhibition of pseudocholinesterase in the plasma. In the postoperative period patients with myasthenia often need postoperative mechanical ventilation because of a residual muscular blockade or worsening of myasthenia. In the literature recently one case report appeared discussing the use of sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis.1 We present a case in which we used rocuronium and sugammadex in the anaesthetic management of a patient with myasthenia gravis undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy.Our patient was a 40-year-old woman weight 55 kg height 153 cm scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy who had had myasthenia gravis for 6 years. Five years ago she had thymectomy after which she needed corticosteroids during a transitional period. Before surgery the patient was taking 3 60 mg pyridostigmin daily. She had an Osserman and Genkins2 classification score of IIa and was otherwise healthy Table 1.
She was preoperatively assessed by a neurologist who considered her therapy appropriate. With her agreement we omitted the premedication on the day of surgery. We continued the pyridostigmine therapy during the entireright  European Society of Anaesthesiology. U This Correspondence accompanies the following article Fuchs-Buder T Less is not always more sugammadex and the risk of under-dosing. Eur J Anesthesiol 2010 27849850.0265-0215 2010 Copyright European Society of Anaesthesiologyperioperative period. The spirometry on the morning prior to surgery was normal. In the operating room an intravenous i.v. cannula was inserted and an infusion of 10 ml kg 1 Ringers solution was started. Electrocardiogram noninvasive blood pressure pulse oximetry capnography and neuromuscular function TOF Watch S monitor Organon Dublin Ireland were monitored and recorded. After preoxygenation anaesthesia was induced with sufentanil 0.18 mg kg 1 propofol 2.4 mg kg 1 and rocuronium 0.36 mg kg 1 1.2 ED95  single effective dose for a 95% block. Five minutes after induction a tracheal tube was inserted and the patient was ventilated with a 40% mixture of oxygen and air to maintain end-tidal CO2 between 3.9 and 4.3 kPa. The anaesthesia was maintained with 1 vol% sevoflurane.
1.Five minutes after the first rocuronium dose the TOF ratio was 0.24. It took 30 min to start the surgery. Prior to the start of surgery the patient received sufentanil 0.36 mg kg 1 and as the TOF ratio was 1 a second dose of rocuronium 0.18 mg kg 1 was administered. After the second dose of rocuronium the TOF count was 3 indicating a muscular block sufficient for the laparoscopic procedure. After 30 min the surgery was completed and the TOF ratio was 0.23. The patient received sugammadex 2 mg kg 1. This is the recommended dose for routine reversal of moderate neuromuscular block.3 At the same time we stopped the sevoflurane and ventilated the patient with 100% oxygen. Four minutes after the administration of sugammadex the TOF the ratio was 1. Six minutes later the patient opened her eyes on call. Her spontaneous breathing was sufficient and she was extubated. She was haemodynamically stable during the whole surgical procedure. Thirty minutes after extubation we repeated the spirometry which was within normal values. For analgesia she received piritramid 2 5 mg i.v. and a short infusion of diclofenac 75 mg and orphenadrine citrate 30 mg 250 ml. The whole postoperative period was uneventful the clinical course of myasthenia gravis did not get worse.
110.80.60.40.20 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80Time minT OF rat ioRecuronium Rocuronium Extubation100% oxygenEnd of surgery sugammadex IncisionIntubationTrain of four ratio during surgery. TOF train of four.In our case we decided to use a balanced i.v./inhalational anaesthesia with a nondepolarizing muscular relaxant. The surgery demanded a good muscular relaxation. In patients with myasthenia gravis authors recommend the use of short-lasting and intermediate-lasting nondepolarizing muscular relaxants for example vecuronium rocuronium atracurim cis-atracurim and a concomitant neuromuscular monitoring.46 In our case we decided to use rocuronium because we had its specific antagonist sugammadex. Our decision was based upon its pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties3 even though in the literature there are no studies discussing the use of rocuronium in combination with sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis except one case report.13 Sugammadex is a g-cyclodextrin it binds free rocuronium molecules in plasma and the generated concentration gradient hastens the rocuronium release from Ach receptors.2 With the use of sugammadex we avoided the use of the classical antagonist n. eostigmine which can cause a cholinergic crisis in a patient with myasthenia.
After the administration of sugammadex the patient was sufficiently spontaneously breathing with a TOF ratio of 1 so she could be extubated immediately after the end of surgery. By using the combination of rocuronium and sugammadex in our case we enabled the surgeon to have a good neuromuscular blockade and excluded the need for prolonged mechanical ventilation in the postoperative period.But at the same time we are aware that with sugammadex we avoided just one of the myriad of factors which can worsen myasthenia gravis. In our case the mentioned factors were the stress due to the gallstone symptomatology the surgical stress the use of anight  European Society of Anaesthesiology. Una European Journal of Anaesthesiology 2010 Vol 27 No 10antibiotic and the use of analgesics. But they did not cause any worsening of the myasthenia gravis. The literature mentions many different recommended anaesthetic techniques with or without a muscle relaxant for a patients with myasthenia. We can find recommendations for a balanced i.v. anaesthesia with propofol and without a muscle relaxant a combination of remifentanil and propofol and a combination of high epidural and balanced i.v.
If a regional anaesthesia method cannot be used it is important to optimize the drugs and doses for good analgesia in patients with myasthenia. Opioids can worsen the already affected respiratory function because of their depressant action on the respiratory centre. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs can worsen the symptoms of myasthenia gravis per se. Metamizol should not have any impact on myasthenia gravis8 but our patient had some unexplained respiratory distress in the past after a metamizol injection so we decided to avoid this drug. Our patient had a good preoperative experience with the analgesic combination of diclofenac and orphenadrine so we decided to combine the mentioned analgesia with intermittent boluses of piritramid. This combination of analgesics was very effective during the whole postoperative period.In summary the presented case shows a good experience with the use of rocuronium combined with sugammadex in a patient with myasthenia. With this combination we achieved a sufficient muscular blockade and excellent conditions for the intubation and the surgery.
A novel positioning technique to assist laryngoscopy in patients with a potentially difficult airway. Sarah Waldron and Adam DobsonFrom the North West School of Anaesthesia Wythenshawe Hospital SW and Wythenshawe Hospital Manchester UK ADCorrespondence to Dr Sarah Waldron Anaesthetic Department Wythenshawe Hospital Southmoor Road Manchester M23 9LT UK E-mail swaldrondoctors.net.ukEditor Intubation in obese/pregnant patients is frequently difficult. Previous authors have suggested using a pillow under the shoulder blades in order to elevate the thoracic spine to achieve a better intubating position.1We advocate using a 1 l fluid infusion pressure bag placed under the shoulders and inflating it until an optimal position for laryngoscopy is achieved which is illustrated in Fig. 1 end. This technique not only facilitates insertion of the laryngoscope which is often difficult in obese and pregnant patients but also allows rapid inflation and deflation for an optimal view.right  European Society of Anaesthesiology. UFig end. 1Patient position after inflation of the pressure bag.This method is also useful during percutaneous tracheostomy insertion in order to achieve better exposure of the neck.Figure 2 shows the position of the patient prior to the positioning of the pressure bag.
The angle between the neck and the sternum has been extended to approximately 1058. This may allow for significantly easier insertion of the laryngoscope. Response to regarding the article Predictive score for oral corticosteroid-induced initial worsening of seropositive generalized myasthenia gravis. We thank Dr. Panahi immensely for the insightful correspondence regarding our publication. We thoroughly enjoyed learning about the statistical methodology. As Dr end. Panahi suggested the comparison between the score model and the multivariate logistic regression model should be presented. In our paper the univariate logistic regression analysis of the score model revealed the area under the curve AUC of 0.775 P0.0001 whereas the stepwise multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed the AUC of 0.774 P 0.0017 1. We are convinced that little difference exists between both regression models. In our paper we only included variables with P < 0.05. As Dr end.
Likewise the results remained same with P < 0.50 level. Furthermore the bootstrapping AUC in this study suggested a little overestimating problem which corroborated our previous paper 2. We were exclusively interested in the directed acyclic graph DAG procedure and entirely concur that DAG would easily reveal confounder 3 however we just needed to exclude a variable if two independent variables exhibited a robust correlation and considered these three characteristics thymoma-associated or early-onset MG initial prednisolone doses 40mg/day and upper limb weakness as clinically independent. Journal of the Neurological Sciencesjournal homepage www.elsevier.com/locate/jnsLetter to the EditorResponse to regarding the article Predictive score for oral corticosteroid-induced initial worsening of seropositive generalized myasthenia gravisA R T I C L E I N F O. Keywords end. Initial worsening Myasthenia gravis Predictive score SteroidWe thank Dr. Panahi immensely for the insightful correspondence regarding our publication. We thoroughly enjoyed learning about the statistical methodology. As Dr end. Panahi suggested the comparison between the score model and the multivariate logistic regression model should be presented.
We are convinced that little difference exists between both regression models. In our paper we only included variables with P < 0.05. As Dr end. Panahi recommended we reanalyzed using variables with higher significance level P < 0.20 including age facial palsy and immunosuppressants however the results remained same implying that thymoma-associated or early-onset MG initial prednisolone doses 40mg/day and upper limb weakness were the absolute risk factors of initial worsening. Likewise the results remained same with P < 0.50 level. Furthermore the bootstrapping AUC in this study suggested a little overestimating problem which corroborated our previous paper 2. We were exclusively interested in the directed acyclic graph DAG procedure and entirely concur that DAG would easily reveal confounder 3 however we just needed to exclude a variable if two independent variables exhibited a robust correlation and considered these three characteristics thymoma-associated or early-onset MG initialprednisolone doses 40mg/day and upper limb weakness as clinically independent. Disclosure of conflicts of interest. None. end. Acknowledgments. None. end. Mycophenolate mofetil  as an adjunctive immunosuppressive therapy in refractory myasthenia gravis The Singapore experience.
Five patients were commenced on MyM in addition to other immunosuppressive therapies. All had significant clinical improvement and no subsequent myasthenic crisis requiring intensive care unit admission. MyM was well tolerated and no serious adverse effects were observed. MyM is an effective adjunctive therapy for the treatment of severe refractory and steroid-dependant MG in our experience. 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. We report our experience using mycophenolate mofetil MyM as an adjunctive immunosuppressive therapy in patients with severe refractory and high dose steroid-dependant myasthenia gravis MG. Five patients were commenced on MyM in addition to other immunosuppressive therapies. All had significant clinical improvement and no subsequent myasthenic crisis requiring intensive care unit admission. MyM was well tolerated and no serious adverse effects were observed. MyM is an effective adjunctive therapy for the treatment of severe refractory and steroid-dependant MG in our experience. 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Keywords Mycophenolate mofetil Myasthenia gravis. 1 end. Introduction. Immunosuppressive therapies such as corticosteroids azathioprine and cyclosporine have been commonly used in autoimmune myasthenia gravis MG.
Mycophenolate mofetil MyM has been successfully used for treating patients with allogeneic transplants and other immune-mediated diseases.37 In the past few years there have been several reports from Western countries indicating MyM may be safer more effective and better tolerated by MG patients.810 Currently there are a number of phase three clinical trials ongoing and at this stage no results have been published. We report our experience using MyM in five patients with myasthenia gravis who had recurrent acute exacerbations and were less responsive to the commonly used immunotherapies. Corresponding author. Tel. 65 63265003 fax 65 62203321. E-mail address gnrpksgh.com.sg K.M. Prakash. end. 2 end. Case reports. end. 2.1 end. Case 1 end. A forty-year-old Chinese woman presented with a 1-month history of bilateral ptosis mild difficulty swallowing and weakness of her limbs. Examination revealed moderate ptosis mild orbicularis oris and oculi weakness bilaterally mild weakness of neck flexor and proximal upper extremities. She had normal speech and eye movements. The Tensilon test repetitive nerve stimulation and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies were positive. She was commenced on pyridostigmine 120 mg three times per day and prednisolone 40 mg every morning.
Post-thymectomy she had recurrent myasthenic crisis requiring intensive care unit ICU admissions plasmaphoresis and intravenous immunoglobulin therapy as well as escalating doses of her medication. In addition to pyridostigmine she was prescribed prednisolone 60 mg per day. Azathioprine 100 mg every morning was added 8 months after disease onset. As a result of prolonged high-dose steroid usage she developed severe osteopenia. Approximately 2 years after initial presentation MyM 500 mg three times per day was added. Three weeks after starting MyM she was weaned off the ventilator. Four weeks later she was ambulating independently and was discharged with good muscle power. She had no further myasthenic crisis. We were able to reduce pyridostigmine to 60 mg three times daily and prednisolone to 4 mg daily and to discontinue azathioprine. Apart from intermittent nausea and diarrhoea in the initial period she tolerated MyM well since its commencement 14 months ago. 2.2 end. Case 2 end. A 29-year-old Chinese woman presented with a 3-week history of double vision and limb weakness. Examination revealed mild ptosis bilateral partial opthalmoplegic and proximal limb weakness. Her Tensilon test repetitive nerve stimulation and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies were positive.
She also underwent a cervical thymectomy approximately 1 year later. Post-thymectomy she had recurrent myasthenic crisis requiring intubation and ventilation immunoglobulin infusion and plasmaphoresis. She also required escalating doses of pyridostigmine up to 120 mg six times a day prednisolone 60 mg and azathioprine 100 mg both every morning. Over the following 10 years she had multiple similar admissions. Due to prolonged steroid usage she had developed cataracts and significant osteopenia. MyM 500 mg three times daily was added after her last admission approximately 2 years ago. Since then she had no further readmission for acute exacerbations. Her medications have been reduced to pyridostigmine 60 mg three times daily and prednisolone 5 mg every morning. Azathioprine which wascommenced more than 5 years earlier was discontinued. She had no adverse side effects to MyM. 2.3 end. Case 3 end. A 66-year-old Chinese woman presented approximately 2 years ago with a 2-week history of bulbar weakness. Positive repetitive nerve stimulation and single fiber EMG tests as well as elevated anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies supported the diagnosis of MG. She was admitted to the ICU for ventilatory support.
She had no CT thorax evidence of thymoma. She was discharged symptomless after a month of in-patient stay. However she developed myasthenic crisis within 2 months of discharge requiring mechanical ventilation and immunoglobulin therapy. After 3 weeks she was commenced on MyM 500 mg three times daily in addition to prednisolone and pyridostigmine. She remained well with no subsequent myasthenic crisis over the last 11 months. The prednisolone was progressively reduced to 20 mg every morning while pyridostigmine was further reduced to 120 mg three times daily. 2.4 end. Case 4 end. A 21-year-old Chinese man presented with acute ptosis double vision and limb weakness. He had strongly positive repetitive nerve stimulation and single fiber electromyographic studies. Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies were elevated as well. He was treated with pyridostigmine 120 mg three times daily and prednisolone 40 mg in the morning. He subsequently underwent thymectomy. Postthymectomy he had a total of five admissions within 18 months three of which required mechanical ventilation. His medications included pyridostigmine 120 mg six times per day prednisolone 60 mg and azathioprine 100 mg both every morning.
During his last admission approximately 1 year ago MyM 500 mg three times daily was added. One month later he noted significant subjective improvement of symptoms and no further myasthenic crisis. We were able to steadily reduce his pyridostigmine to 120 mg three times daily and prednisolone to 5 mg in the morning. Azathioprine which was commenced just over a year ago was discontinued. He did not have any major adverse effects with MyM. 2.5 end. Case 5 end. A 52-year-old Malay woman presented with a 1-week history of progressive dysphagia dysarthria double vision and generalized weakness. She had positive repetitive nerve stimulation and single fiber electromyographic studies aswell as elevated anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. Computed tomography scan of the thorax showed no evidence of thymoma. She was initially treated with pyridostigmine 120 mg four times daily and prednisolone 40 mg every morning. However as she had no improvement on this treatment she was given intravenous immunoglobulin and plasmapherisis. She did not require ventilatory support. She was discharged after a 1-month hospital stay. She was prescribed pyridostigmine 120 mg four times daily prednisolone 60 mg in the morning and MyM 500 mg twice daily.
During her last clinical review she had minimal ptosis and no evidence of diplopia ophthalmoplegia dysarthria or limb weakness. Currently she remains on pyridostigmine 120 mg three times a day prednisolone 30 mg in the morning and MyM 500 mg twice daily. 3 end. Discussion. Mycophenolate mofetil MyM is a potent immunosuppressive agent. It inhibits purine synthesis in activated T and B lymphocytes and selectively inhibits their proliferation while leaving other cell lines intact.3 It is absorbed rapidly and is metabolized into mycophenolic acid a potent selective noncompetitive and reversible inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase.4 It has a strong safety profile and no major organ toxicity or mutagenic effect.47 Reports in Western countries showed that MyM appeared to be effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatme. nt of severe refractory and steroid-dependant myasthenia gravis.811All five of our MG patients had reached a plateau of clinical improvement after receiving high doses of pyridostigmine steroids and azathioprine. Three of these patients had successful thymectomy performed in the early stages of disease. They were still experiencing severe symptom exacerbation and required high dosages of medication.
None of them had subsequent myasthenic crisis requiring ICU admission after addition of MyM. Unlike an earlier case report8 we observed symptomatic improvement beginning 24 months after starting MyM. This improvement persisted after the commencement of MyM from approximately 11 months to 2 years. Hence pyridostigmine could be significantly reduced without causing worsening of symptoms.Similar to previous reports911 our data also suggest a steroid-sparing effect of MyM. All five patients were already on high-dose prednisolone when MyM treatment was begun and were able to decrease the prednisolone dosage without significant clinical worsening. The reduction was crucial in these patients as some of them had already developed serious long-term steroid-induced adverse effects. This observation may provide the motivation for early commencement of MyM in future cases of refractory MG.All our patients tolerated MyM well. The serum biochemistry full blood counts electrolytes urea levels and liver function test that was carried out on all our patients every 36 months showed no abnormalities. While the short-term safety profile appeared good with MyM the long-term adverse effects in our patients remain unknown.
Other reports have used between 1000 and 2000 mg per day.15 Although there was no serious short-term adverse effects observed the optimal dosage remains uncertain in patients of Asian origin. In transplant patients MyM up to 3500 mg per day has been used with few side effects.1617All our patients were receiving other forms of immunosuppression at the time MyM treatment was commenced. Therefore the potential role of MyM as sole therapy as reported in an earlier publication11 remains to be investigated in our patients. Larger randomized trials are needed to answer this question. To this end our experience suggests that MyM is a promising alternative to other currently available immunosuppressive drugs for the treatment of refractory MG. 1 end. Introduction. Cerebrospinal fluid CSF rhinorrhea involves a breakdown of all barriers that separate the subarachnoid space from the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses. This may be traumatic or spontaneous. We document a case of CSF rhinorrhea associated with a chronic subdural haematoma an entity that has not been previously reported and discuss its management. 2 end. Case report. A 59-year-old man presented with a history of watery discharge from the right nostril of 2 months duration.
Onexamination he had a right supranuclear facial paresis and mild right-sided pyramidal signs. The fundi were normal. The rhinorrhea worsened when he leaned forward.MRI of the head showed a left fronto-parietal chronic subdural haematoma CSH of 2.5 cm thickness with significant mass effect. There was also evidence of fluid within the sphenoid sinus that appeared to be in communication with the subarachnoid space through a defect in the right side of the planum sphenoidale Fig. 1 end. The cribriform plate region appeared normal.The CSH was evacuated under local anesthesia through two burr holes one in the frontal and the other in the parietal region. On making cruciate dural incisions 4050 mL of altered blood was drained under high pressure. Postoperatively he was kept on bed-rest for 2 weeks despite which the CSF leak continued. A postoperative CT was not done to rule out a possible recollection of the subdural haematoma. A transnasal endoscopic closure of the CSF dural fistula was done. The cranial base defect was seen on the right  Corresponding author. Tel. 61 08 82044355 fax 61 08 82045116. E-mail address spoonnooserediffmail.com S.I. Poonnoose. Treatment of myasthenia gravis with methylprednisolone pulse a double blind study.
Material and methods We performed a double blind placebo controlled study 22 g IVMP vs placebo in patients with moderate MG. Results A mean increase in muscle function of 27 points was found in the treatment group after one IVMP pulse as compared with a 0.7 point increase in the placebo group P<O.Ol. In the IVMP group 8 of 10 patients showed a positive treatment response. The mean duration of improvement after IVMP was 8 weeks range 4-14 weeks. No severe side effects were found. Acetylcholine receptor antibody concentrations were unchanged in spite of the positive treatment response. Conclusions We conclude that a single IVMP treatment is efficacious and safe in the treatment of moderate MG. Use of Remdesivir in Myasthenia gravis and COVID-. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease that leads to fatigable skeletal muscle weakness. Antibodies targeting acetylcholine receptors or functionally related molecules such as musclespecific kinase or lipoprotein receptorrelated receptor 4 in the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction result in failure of neuromuscular transmission.1 The ensuing weakness can vary from day to day and over the course of the day. It can be generalized or localized and is often associated with repetitive muscle use ie fatigability.
n associated with clinical worsening of MG.5 Antivirals with reports of exacerbating MG include interferon alpha hydroxychloroquine and peramavir.56 Remdesivir has an alternative mechanism of action when compared to the previously listed antivirals. Remdesivir is an inhibitor of viral RNAdependent RNA polymerase that is intended to reduce virus levels and subsequent lung damage in SARSCoV2 infection.79 At the time of publication there have been no published reports of the utilization of the antiviral remdesivir in patients with MG. Here we describe the use of remdesivir and clinical outcomes in three patients with MG and SARSCoV2 infection. Pharmacotherapy. 20210015 end. wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/phar  1 2021 Pharmacotherapy Publications Inc. 1  INTRODUC TION. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease that leads to fatigable skeletal muscle weakness. Antibodies targeting acetylcholine receptors or functionally related molecules such as muscle- specific kinase or lipoprotein receptor- related receptor 4 in the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction result in failure of neuromuscular transmission.1 The ensuing weakness can vary from day to day and over the course of the day.
Immunosuppressive agents including but not limited to corticosteroids antimetabolites and calcineurin inhibitors are effective for the treatment of MG.12The immunosuppressive agents utilized for MG treatment may put these patients at higher risk of contracting the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 SARS- CoV- 2 and exhibiting more severe manifestations of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 COVID- 19.34 Several classes of drugs including some antibiotics and antiviral medications hav. e been associated with clinical worsening of MG.5 Antivirals with reports of exacerbating MG include interferon alpha hydroxychloroquine and peramavir.56 Remdesivir has an alternative mechanism of action when compared to the previously listed antivirals. Remdesivir is an inhibitor of viral RNAdependent RNA polymerase that is intended to reduce virus levels and subsequent lung damage in SARS- CoV- 2 infection.7- 9 At the time of publication there have been no published reports of theutilization of the antiviral remdesivir in patients with MG. Here we describe the use of remdesivir and clinical outcomes in three patients with MG and SARS- CoV- 2 infection. 2  C A SES. end. 2.1  Case 1. A 71- year- old male with MG was treated at baseline with mycophenolic acid monotherapy Table 1.
The patient was a poor historian and information regarding past MG exacerbations was limited. He was brought to an outside hospital emergency department after being found down at his assisted living facility. He was noted to be hypoxic and febrile with hazy bilateral opacities on chest x- ray. Nasopharynx real- time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT- PCR was positive for SARSCoV- 2. He was given 200 mg of intravenous IV remdesivir and 6 mg of IV dexamethasone and was transferred to our institutions intensive care unit ICU for management of hypoxemic respiratory failure. In our hospital he received 10 total days of dexamethasone 6 mg/day and 4 additional days of IV remdesivir 100 mg/day. In addition to these therapies the patient qualified for a clinical trial and received lenzilumab 600 mg every 8 h for 3 doses or placebo as per the study protocol. He continued his maintenance mycophenolic acid1Department of Pharmacy Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota USA 2Division of Neurology Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota USA 3Division of Pulmonary  Critical Care Medicine Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota USA 4Division of Cardiovascular Medicine Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota USA. Correspondence. Bradley J.
Email Peters.bradleymayo.eduK E Y W O R D S coronavirus COVID COVID- 19 Myasthenia gravis Remdesivir SARSregimen for MG. He required continuous positive airway pressure CPAP and high- flow nasal cannula HFNC to maintain oxygenation but did not have evidence of significant hypercapnia arterial blood gas with pH of 7.43 partial pressure of carbon dioxide of 45 mmHg and partial pressure of oxygen 56 mmHg. Due to progressively worsening hypoxemic respiratory failure Neurology was consulted to ensure neuromuscular weakness was not contributing to his declining respiratory status. Neurologic examination was notable for absence of accessory respiratory muscle use and lack of paradoxical breathing pattern. He had preserved strength overall with no ptosis with sustained upward gaze and no evidence of bulbar weakness.Thus MG was not felt to be contributing to his respiratory failure and he was ultimately diagnosed with an acute pulmonary embolism. After further goals of care discussions the patient was transitioned to comfort- focused care measures and passed away in the hospital. 2.2  Case 2. A 41- year- old female had been diagnosed with MG in 1995. She had undergone thymectomy and was treated with mycophenolate mofetil prednisone and pyridostigmine at baseline.
ation Mycophenolic acidMycophenolate mofetil pyridostigmine prednisone after completing dexamethasone Azathioprine prednisone pyridostigmineCOVID- 19 TreatmentsDexamethasone 6 mg daily for 10 doses Remdesivir 200 mg once followed by 100 mg daily for 4 days Lenzilumab or placebo research protocolDexamethasone 6 mg daily for 10 days Remdesivir 200 mg IV once followed by 100 mg daily for 4 days Prone positioning Remdesivir 200 mg IV once followed by 100 mg daily for 4 days Dexamethasone 6 mg IV onc. e followed by Prednisone at a dose of 60 mg/dayRespiratory SupportNIV CPAP/HFNC MV None NIV BPAP CPAP HFNCMV NoneNIV CPAP HFNC transitioning to NC/RA MV Yes x3 daysEvidence of MG exacerbationNo No NoOutcome Deceased Alive still hospitalizedAlive discharged to homeAbbreviations BPAP bilevel positive airway pressure CPAP continuous positive airway pressure DM- 2 Diabetes mellitus type 2 HFNC high- flow nasal cannula HLD hyperlipidemia HTN hypertension IVIG intravenous immunoglobulin MV mechanical . ventilation NC nasal cannula NIV Noninvasive ventilation RA Room air. Lenzilumab vs placebo research protocol is lenzilumab 600 mg q8h for 3 doses or placebo.TA B L E 1 Characteristics of patients with myasthenia gravis and COVID- 19 who received remdesiviranxiety and morbid obesity.
She initially presented to an outside hospital emergency department with shortness of breath fever and delirium in the setting of multiple family members with known SARS- CoV- 2 infection. At the outside emergency department her chest x- ray revealed diffuse bilateral infiltrates consistent with COVID- 19 pneumonia. Her nasopharynx RT- PCR was positive for SARS- CoV- 2. She was placed on 6 L/min nasal cannula NC for hypoxia and transferred to our institutions ICU with worsening respiratory distress. Upon arrival at our institution she was placed on HFNC for hypoxia and was later transitioned to bilevel positive airway pressure BIPAP. A one- time remdesivir 200 mg IV dose was given followed by 100 mg IV daily for 4 additional days. She was also started on dexamethasone 6 mg IV daily and completed a 10- day course. After completing the dexamethasone regimen she was transitioned to her baseline prednisone 5 mg daily. The patient continued her baseline MG regimen of mycophenolate mofetil 1000 mg in the morning and 1500 mg in the evening along with pyridostigmine 60 mg every 2 h while awake. There was no evidence of ocular or muscle weakness noted on physical examination. The patient never required mechanical ventilation and ultimately improved and was transferred out of the ICU.
A 59- year- old male had a recent diagnosis of MG in May 2020. Comorbidities include type 2 diabetes mellitus sleep apnea obesity and asthma. Baseline MG therapy included azathioprine pyridostigmine monthly infusions of intravenous immune globulin IVIG and prednisone. He had a recent MG exacerbation 1 month prior to admission while prednisone was being tapered and after missing an IVIG infusion. After receiving IVIG his MG symptoms resolved. He presented to an outside hospital emergency department with hypoxemic respiratory failure requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation and was transferred to our ICU. A chest x- ray showed bilateral patchy opacities consistent with COVID- 19 pneumonia and nasopharyngeal RT- PCR was positive for SARS- CoV- 2. Due to ventilator dyssynchrony he was sedated and paralyzed with atracurium. He received remdesivir 200 mg IV once followed by 100 mg IV daily for 4 additional doses. He received one dose of dexamethasone 6 mg IV and then continued on his baseline prednisone 60 mg per day. He also continued his baseline azathioprine 100 mg in the morning and 50 mg in the evening and pyridostigmine 60 mg every 8 h. He was ultimately extubated and transitioned to supplemental oxygen via NC and discharged from the hospital.
3  DISCUSSION. Little is known about the use of remdesivir in patients with MG and COVID- 19. In this case series we describe the clinical course andoutcomes of three patients with MG and COVID- 19 pneumonia with hypoxemic respiratory failure who were treated with remdesivir in combination with dexamethasone. None of the patients experienced significant clinical worsening of MG after treatment with remdesivir.There is a concern that MG and the associated pharmacologic management options including immunosuppressive agents could place these patients at higher risk of contracting SARS- CoV- 2and exhibiting more severe manifestations of COVID- 19. Current guidance documents from the International MG/COVID- 19 Working Group and the FILNEMUS COVID- 19 study group acknowledged the potential utilization of various COVID- 19 therapeutic agents in patients with MG but did not make any recommendations to guide use of these agents based on a lack of supporting evidence.34 Since these guidance documents were published in March and April of 2020 respectively there has been new evidence regarding therapeutic options for COVID- 19.Remdesivir an antiv.
oxygen but are not requiring mechanical ventilation.7910 Remdesivir is an adenosine nucleotide prodrug that is rapidly converted to two initial metabolites alanine metabolite and nucleoside monophosphate metabolite.711 The monophosphate metabolite is further phosphorylated to the active remdesivir triphosphate. The remdesivir triphosphate inhibits viral replication by competing with endogenous nucleotides for incorporation into viral RNA. The parent remdesivir compound has a plasma half- life of approximately 1 h. The monophosphate metabolite has a plasma half- life of approximately 25 h and the remdesivir triphosphate has a peripheral blood mononuclear cell intracellular half- life of approximately 40 h. These long half- lives result in prolonged exposure beyond the completion of the dosing regimen.Since some antivirals and other classes of medications can worsen MG we had initial hesitancy to prescribe remdesivir in these critically ill patients with SARS- CoV- 2 infection.
According to reported half- lives the monophosphate metabolite would reach plasma steady state by day 8 and the triphosphate intracellular steady state by day 10. Thus we anticipate that any neurologic or respiratory worsening would have occurred by day 10. None of the patients developed significant worsening of MG symptoms suggestive of an exacerbation or crisis after treatment with remdesivir. It should also be noted that all three of the patients in our case series received dexamethasonein addition to remdesivir and the 2 surviving patients resumed their baseline steroids which obscures the ability to assess the effect of remdesivir in isolation.1314 Yet corticosteroids are part of the MG treatment algorithm and the COVID- 19 dosing of 6 mg per day of dexamethasone 40 mg/day prednisone equivalent is equivalent to or higher than standard MG prednisone equivalents utilized for maintena.
.15- 22 Prior case reports in patients with MG and COVID- 19 reported use of alternative medications such as hydroxychloroquine azithromycin tocilizumab lopinavir and ritonavir. Some of these medications such as hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin have notably been associated with MG exacerbations.22- 25 Considering that COVID- 19 can precipitate MG symptoms our finding of minimal ocular to no symptom worsening in three patients who received remdesivir suggests that remdesivir does not significantly worsen MG. Most importantly remdesivir did not clinically precipitate a myasthenic respiratory crisis. To our knowledge this is the first reported description of remdesivir use in patients with MG and COVID- 19. 4  CONCLUSION. In this case series we describe three patients with MG and active SARS- CoV- 2 infections who received remdesivir. In these critically ill patients with MG and COVID- 19 pneumonia the use of the antiviral remdesivir in combination with dexamethasone did not precipitate a MG exacerbation or crisis. CONFLIC TS OF INTERE S T. The authors have no conflicts of interest to report. ORCID end. Bradley J. Peters https//orcid.org/0000-0002-0101-8320R E FE R E N C E S 1. Gilhus NE. Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med. 20163752570- 2581.https//doi.org/10.1056/NEJMr a1602678.
Sanders DB Wolfe GI Benatar M et al. International consen-sus guidance for management of myasthenia gravis. Neurology. 201687419- 425. https//doi.org/10.1212/WNL.00000 00000 002790. 3 end. International MG/COVID- 19 Working Group Jacob S Muppidi S et al. Guidance for the management of myasthenia gravis and Lambert- Eaton myasthenic syndrome during COVID- 19 pandemic. J Neurol Sci. 2020412 116803. https//doi.org/10.1016/j. jns.2020.116803. 4 end. Sol G Salort- Campana E Pereon Y et al. Guidance for the care of neuromuscular patients during the COVID- 19 pandemicoutbreak from the French Rare Health Care for Neuromuscular Diseases Network. Rev Neurol Paris. 2020176507- 515. https// doi.org/10.1016/j.neurol.2020.04.004. 5 end. Wittbrodt ET. Drugs and Myasthenia gravis an update. Arch Intern Med. 1997157399- 408. 6 end. Hayashi K Iwasa K Morinaga A Ono K Yamada M. Exacerbation of Myasthenia gravis by intravenous peramivir. Muscle Nerve. 201551935- 936. https//doi.org/10.1002/mus.24594. 7 end. Vekluryremdesivir. Package Insert. Foster City CA Gilead Sciences 2020. 8 end. Beigel JH Tomashek KM Dodd LE et al. Remdesivir for the treatment of Covid- 19  Final report. N Engl J Med. 20203831813- 1826. https//doi.org/10.1056/NEJMo a2007764. 9 end.
Repurposed antiviral drugs for COVID- 19  interim WHO SOLIDARITY trial results. N Engl J Med. 2020 end. https//doi.org/10.1056/NEJMo a2023184. 10 end. Alhazzani W Evans L Alshamsi F et al. Surviving sepsis campaign guidelines on the management of adults with coronavirus disease 2019COVID- 19 in the ICU first update. Crit Care Med. 202149e219- e234. https//doi.org/10.1097/CCM.00000 00000 004899. 11 end. Jorgensen SCJ Kebriaei R Dresser LD. Remdesivir review of pharmacology pre- clinical data and emerging clinical experience for COVID- 19. Pharmacotherapy. 202040659- 671. https//doi. org/10.1002/phar.2429. 12 end. Mulangu S Dodd LE Davey RT et al. A randomized controlled trial of Ebola virus disease therapeutics. N Engl J Med. 20193812293- 2303. https//doi.org/10.1056/NEJMo a1910993. 13 end. RECOVERY Collaborative Group Horby P Lim WS et al. Dexamethasone in hospitalized patients with Covid- 19- preliminary report. N Engl J Med. 2021384693- 704. https//doi.org/10.1056/ NEJMo a2021436. 14 end. Tomazini BM Maia IS Cavalcanti AB et al. Effect of dexamethasone on days alive and ventilator- free in patients with moderate or severe acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID- 19 the CoDEX randomized clinical trial. JAMA end. 20201307- 1316. https// doi.org/10.1001/jama.2020.17021.
Anand P Slama MCC Kaku M et al. COVID- 19 in patients with myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve. 202062254- 271. https//doi. org/10.1002/mus.26918. 16 end. Rein N Haham N Orenbuch- Harroch E et al. Description of 3 patients with myasthenia gravis and COVID- 19. J Neurol Sci. 2020417117053. https//doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2020.117053. 17 end. Camelo- Filho AE Silva AMS Estephan EP et al. Myasthenia gravis and COVID- 19 clinical characteristics and outcomes. Front Neurol. 2020111053. https//doi.org/10.3389/fneur.2020.01053. 18 end. Singh S Govindarajan R. COVID- 19 and generalized Myasthenia Gravis exacerbation a case report. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2020196 https//doi.org/10.1016/j.cline uro.2020.106045. 19 end. Moschella P Rothe P. Isolated COVID- 19 infection precipitates Myasthenia gravis crisis a single case report. Clin Pract Cases Emerg Med. 20204524- 526. https//doi.org/10.5811/ cpcem.2020.9.49049. 20 end. Ramaswamy SB Govindarajen R. COVID- 19 in refractory Myasthenia gravis- a case report of successful outcome. J Neuromuscul Dis. 20207361- 364. https//doi.org/10.3233/ JND- 200520. 21 end. Hoang P Hurtubise B Muppidi S. Clinical reasoning therapeutic considerations in myasthenic crisis due to COVID- 19 infection. Neurology. 202095840- 843.
22 end. Gautret P Lagier J- C Parola P et al. Hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin as a treatment of COVID- 19 results of an open- label nonrandomized clinical trial. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 202056105949. https//doi.org/10.1016/j.ijant imicag.2020.105949.23. Jallouli O Saadoun H Eymard A et al. The association of systemic lupus erythematous and myasthenia gravis a series of 17 cases with a special focus on hydroxychloroquine use and a review of the literature. J Neurol end. 20122591290- 1297. https//doi.org/10.1007/ s0041 5- 011- 6335- z. 24 end. Varan O Kucuk H Tufan A. Myasthenia gravis due to hydroxychloroquine. Reumatismo. 201567125. https//doi.org/10.4081/reuma tismo.2015.849. 25 end. Koc G Odabasi Z Tan E. Myasthenic syndrome caused by hydroxychloroquine used for COVID- 19 prophylaxis. Journal of ClinicalNeuromuscular Disease. 20202260- 62. https//doi.org/10.1097/ CND.00000 00000 000316.How to cite this article Peters BJ Rabinstein AA DuBrock HM. Use of Remdesivir in Myasthenia gravis and COVID- 19. Pharmacotherapy. 20210015 end. https//doi.org/10.1002/ phar.2524. Percutaneous vertebroplasty in a series of myasthenic patients with steroid-induced symptomatic vertebral fractures.
An alternative treatment to medical therapy for pain caused by recent VFs is percutaneous vertebroplasty PVP. Patients were treated by PVP after careful selection based on the presence of persistent pain not resolved by standard medical therapy correlation between pain and level of the VF and neuroradiological features. We performed PVP in 4 patients with generalized MG associated with recent steroid-induced symptomatic VFs. Relief from pain was very rapid usually within 24 h and retained at a 3-month evaluation. No severe complication or MG worsening were observed in the post-operative period. Although clinical indication for PVP is still controversial in our experience PVP is a useful and safe tool to be considered in the management of recent steroid-induced symptomatic VFs in selected MG patients. observed in 3050 % of patients affected by steroidinduced osteoporosis with consequentially severe back pain and functional limitation. An alternative treatment to medical therapy for pain caused by recent VFs is percutaneous vertebroplasty PVP. Patients were treated by PVP after careful selection based on the presence of persistent pain not resolved by standard medical therapy correlation between pain and level of the VF and neuroradiological features.
Relief from pain was very rapid usually within 24 h and retained at a 3-month evaluation. No severe complication or MG worsening were observed in the post-operative period. Although clinical indication for PVP is still controversial in our experience PVP is a useful and safe tool to be considered in the management of recent steroid-induced symptomatic VFs in selected MG patients.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Vertebroplasty Osteoporosis Steroids Vertebral fracture. Introduction. Corticosteroids are a key therapy in the long-term management of myasthenia gravis MG and osteoporosis is asevere and relatively common side effect of chronic steroids treatment. Vertebral compression fractures are observed in 3050 % of patients affected by steroidinduced osteoporosis with consequentially severe back pain and functional limitation 1. An alternative treatment to medical therapy for pain due to recent vertebral fractures VFs is percutaneous vertebroplasty PVP a minimally invasive procedure whose aim is vertebral stabilization/ restauration injecting bone cement into the fractured vertebral body under fluoroscopy 2 3.
Methods end. Patients were treated by PVP after careful selection based on the presence of persistent pain not resolved by standard medical therapy after a period of at least 1 month correlation between pain and level of the VF and neuroradiological imaging features. In particular PVP was performed in correspondence of VFs associated with vertebral oedema detected at T2-weighted short tau inversion recovery sequences MRI scan which correlates with recent process and symptoms. In addition symptomatic fractures needed to be less than 1 year old.PVP was performed according to standard procedure by experienced neuroradiologists 2 3. After obtaining patients specific informed consent PVP procedure was carried out in sedation and local anaesthesia by dedicated needles positioned under biplane fluoroscopic guidance in correspondence of the VFs through transpedicular routeL. Maggi  R end. Mantegazza Neuroimmunology and Muscle Pathology Unit Foundation IRCCS Neurological Institute C. Besta Via Celoria 11 20133 Milan Italy e-mail lorenzo.maggiistituto-besta.itG. Farago E end. Ciceri Neuroradiology Unit Foundation IRCCS Neurological Institute C. Besta Milan Italymono or bilateral mono or plurimetameric depending on VFs features.
At the end of the procedure all patients undergone spine CT scan to verify the correct distribution of the cement in the vertebral body and the absence of venous or intracanalar leakage 2. Patients remained in antibiotic treatment over 1 week to prevent any infectious problem and were discharged the day after the procedure.Pain intensity was measured on a 10-cm visual analogue scale VAS scoring from 0 to 10 the day before PVP 1 day after and 3 months later. Patients end. All of our patients had detectable antibodies to AChR apart from patient 4 which was negative for both AChRand MuSK-antibodies. Table 1 summarizes clinical and PVP features of our series.Patients mean age at PVP was 59 years range 3870 mean time to VFs after prednisone initiation was 5.3 years range 0.615. Before VFs all patients received a high total dose of steroids ranging from 10.5 to 267 g on a daily administration except patient 2 who was on alternate day schedule. Patient 1 and 2 were on biphosphonates alendronate and clodronate respectively before VFs occurrence while patients 3 and 4 started biphosphonates alendronate soon after first VF detection 1 month. Allpatients took oral calcium and vitamin D supplementation before VFs occurrence.PVP was performed 110 months after painful VFs presentation.
In our patients pain relief after PVP was retained at a 3-month evaluation and lasted afterwards. In patients 1 and 3 several fractures were detected at first MRI PVP procedures were initially performed on the clinically symptomatic vertebral bodies a second PVP was then performed on other fractured metamers when they become symptomatic 1 month after in patient 1 and 5 months in patient 3. As shown in Fig. 1 in the PVP follow-up period ranging from 5 months to 5.2 years a new VF was detected only in patient 1 2 years after the second PVP procedure.No severe technical or clinical complication or MG worsening were observed in our patients in the post-operative period. Conclusions. Corticosteroids are the most commonly used immunosuppressive drug in MG and osteoporosis is a relatively common side effect in particular if given at high doses leading to an increased risk of VF and consequentially severe back pain and disability. Conservative therapy of painful VFs is usually suggested as first-line treatment.However some patients fail to respond to medical therapy requiring hospitalization long-term care or both. PVP has been proposed as an alternative treatment in selected patients.
In our cohort only a new VF was detected in the follow-up period patient 1 2 years after the second PVP procedure. However in consideration of the new VF time lag occurrence it is unlikely that this event was related to the prior PVP.Although our series includes a small cohort of patients our experience argues favourably to PVP in MG patients suffering of iatrogenic VFs. The best results can be achieved when 1 the case selection is based on precise clinical and radiological criteria 2 the directions are given by a multi-specialist team involving neurologists and neuroradiologists tailoring the treatment to individual patient characteristics and 3 there is a careful monitoring over the time of the patient conditions. In conclusion despite clinical indication for PVP is still controversial we suggest PVP as a useful and safe tool to be considered inthe management of recent steroid-induced symptomatic vertebral fractures in selected MG patients 610. Benefits of FK 506 for refractory eye symptoms in a young child with ocular myasthenia gravis. Recently there have been many reports on the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus FK506 treatment for adult patients with intractable generalized myasthenia gravis MG.
Herein we report the efficacy of FK 506 for refractory ocular symptoms in a 3-year-old girl with ocular type MG. Ptosis and alternating strabismus had appeared at 10 months of age. No bulbar signs respiratory failure or generalized muscle weakness had been seen during her course. Her ocular symptoms had persisted despite repeated steroid pulse therapy high dose oral prednisolone and thymectomy. Adverse effects of steroids including obesity growth retardation osteoporosis cataracts and hyperlipidemia gradually worsened. After obtaining written informed consent from her parents we started oral tacrolimus at a dose of 0.5 mg/day and her symptoms resolved completely within 3 weeks at a maximum dose of 2.5 mg/day. No adverse effects such as renal failure or glucose intolerance were seen. FK506 treatment allowed the steroid dose to be reduced eliminating its adverse effects. In patients with intractable childhood-onset MG with ocular manifestations FK506 is an alternative to steroid therapy or thymectomy. 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Recently there have been many reports on the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus FK506 treatment for adult patients with intractable generalized myasthenia gravis MG.
Herein we report the efficacy of FK 506 for refractory ocular symptoms in a 3-year-old girl with ocular type MG. Ptosis and alternating strabismus had appeared at 10 months of age. No bulbar signs respiratory failure or generalized muscle weakness had been seen during her course. Her ocular symptoms had persisted despite repeated steroid pulse therapy high dose oral prednisolone and thymectomy. Adverse effects of steroids including obesity growth retardation osteoporosis cataracts and hyperlipidemia gradually worsened. After obtaining written informed consent from her parents we started oral tacrolimus at a dose of 0.5 mg/day and her symptoms resolved completely within 3 weeks at a maximum dose of 2.5 mg/day. No adverse effects such as renal failure or glucose intolerance were seen. FK506 treatment allowed the steroid dose to be reduced eliminating its adverse effects. In patients with intractable childhood-onset MG with ocular manifestations FK506 is an alternative to steroid therapy or thymectomy. 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Tacrolimus FK506 Childhood Myasthenia gravis Ocular type. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disorder impairing neurotransmission at the neuromuscular junction.
Symptoms of ocular MG are limited to extraocular muscle weakness i.e. ptosis or limitations of eye movements. However generalized MG produces weakness or easy fatigability of the bulbar or skeletal muscles resulting in dysphonia dysphagia general fatigue and occasionally respiratory failure. The latter is referred to as a myasthenic crisis. Antibodies against0387-7604/ - see front matter 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.braindev.2008.08.016 Corresponding author. Tel. 81 3 3353 8111 fax 81 3 5269 7338.E-mail address keishiped.twmu.ac.jp K. Ishigaki.the acetylcholine receptor AChR of skeletal muscle or anti-muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK in some adult cases play major roles in the pathophysiology of MG. Productions of these antibodies are thought to be due to T-cell activation. Current therapies for adult generalized MG aim to suppress the production of antibodies. These include thymectomy steroids and other immunosuppressive agents. On the other hand for ocular MG anti-cholinesterase drugs are the first choice with steroids or immunosuppressive agents being added later. In pediatric cases the general therapies are the same as those for adults except for thymectomy and tacrolimus hydrate FK506.
However it is only selected for childhood-onset generalized MG cases with an intracta-ble course since it retards growth and results in an immunodeficient state.FK506 is a macrolide molecule and belongs to the same immunosuppressant class as cyclosporine. It suppresses the production of interleukin-2 and thereby inhibits the proliferation and differentiation of cytotoxic T-cells. Recently the efficacy and safety of FK506 in treating adult patients with intractable generalized MG have been reported 13. These studies suggested FK506 to be a potential alternative to steroids or other immunosuppressive agents like cyclosporine for the treatment of MG. To date however very few reports have described using FK506 in childhood-onset MG 45 since the use of this drug in MG patients under 15 years of age is not reimbursed by the Japanese national insurance scheme. All reported childhood cases had severe and intractable generalized MG and were given FK506 after a myasthenic crisis. Clinically our patient had ocular MG with no systemic symptoms at any time during her course but the ocular symptoms could not be controlled even by a high dose of oral prednisolone PSL and thymectomy.
2 end. Case report Fig. 1 end. The patient was a 3-year-old girl. She was the only child of non-consanguineous healthy parents. She was healthy prior to the onset of MG. At age 10 months left-sided ptosis appeared followed shortly thereafter by bilateral ptosis. Strabismus of the left eye was also recognized but without systemic symptoms such as muscle weakness or bulbar signs. No decrementalFig. 1 end. Summary of patientsresponse was seen on the repetitive stimulation test No data about examined muscles. A positive Tensilon test and anti-AChR antibodies 1.9 nmol/l normal range < 0.2 suggested ocular MG. She was started on an anti-cholinesterase drug but there was no response. She was started on 2 mg/kg/day oral PSL at 13 months of age and her ptosis showed gradual improvement. One month after starting oral PSL her eye symptoms had nearly disappeared. While tapering oral PSL 1.4 mg/kg/day bilateral ptosis reappeared. Despite increasing PSL to 2 mg/kg/day her ocular symptoms worsened. Ultimately the bilateral ptosis was refractory even to 3 mg/kg/day oral PSL. At 22 months of age 2 courses of steroid pulse therapy were administered. Though initially effective her symptoms returned within 2 weeks. At 2 years of age she was brought to our hospital.
Her symptoms were refractory to steroid pulse therapy methylprednisone mPSL 30 mg/kg/day for 3 consecutive days at this time. Ten days after 3 courses of steroid pulse therapy her bilateral ptosis finally showed improvement. While tapering the oral PSL much more slowly than usual ptosis reappeared apparently triggered by a viral infection. Severe bilateral ptosis was refractory even to 1 mg/kg/day PSL administered continuously. In addition she developed mild hypertension hypertrichosis and obesity. She underwent trans-sternal thymectomy at 2 years and 7 months of age. Her thymic tissue showed lymphofollicular hyperplasia. In the immediate postoperative period the leftsided ptosis disappeared leaving only her right-side affected. For half a year after the operation there was no change in symptoms. At age 3 years her AChR antibody level increased to 6.4 nmol/l normal range < 0.2 nmol/l though with neither bulbar signs nor generalized muscle weakness. Mild steroid cataracts were detected at that time Fig. 1.course and treatment.After obtaining informed consent from her parents she was admitted for initiation of FK506 therapy at 3 years and 1 month age. On admission her height was 89 cm  1.0 SD weight 18.4 kg 3.6 SD and Kaup index 23.2.
Her blood pressure averaged 120/90 mmHg. Bilateral ptosis was recognized with complete closure of the right eye. Intermittent exotropia of the left eye was also seen. Left eye muscles were markedly affected and she was capable of only limited adduction 3/5. The right eye showed moderate limitations of supraduction and infraduction 2/5 with severely limited abduction 1/5 while no adduction was possible 0/5. There was no weakness of limb trunk or bulbar muscles. Decremental responses were 26% at 10 and 52% at 20 Hz stimulation at the 5th muscle action potential on the repetitive stimulation test at short abductor muscle of thumb. The antiAChR antibody level was 3.5 nmol/l. We set the goal of maintaining a peak FK506 concentration of approximately 56 ng/ml and started oral FK506 at a dose of 0.5 mg/day 0.028 mg/kg/day given once daily in the evening. Every 34 days we checked the serum FK506 concentration and began gradually increasing the dose by 0.5 mg/day. One week after the start of FK506 the right eye ptosis improved but did not disappear. Three weeks thereafter when the dose of FK506 had reached 2.5 mg/day 0.14 mg/kg/day the bilateral ptosis suddenly showed clear improvement. Alternating strabismus remained but the eye movement limitations also improved.
The peak FK506 concentration was 4.3 ng/ml at that time and no adverse effects such as renal failure heart failure or glucose intolerance were recognized.The patient was followed up as an outpatient for 1 year and the dose of oral PSL was tapered from 1 to 0.4 mg/kg/day. The anti-AChR antibody level dropped to 1.3 nmol/l/. The patient remained asymptomatic during steroid tapering. She continued 2.5 mg/day of oral FK506 without apparent adverse effects. The serum FK 506 concentration was consistently maintained under 3.0 ng/ml. 3 end. Discussion. The optimal treatment for childhood-onset MG especially the ocular type has been controversial 67. The most important difference between treatments for adult and childhood-onset MG is the priority given to thymectomy and immunosuppressive agents. Thymectomy would be the first choice for adult-onset generalized MG with a high level of anti-AChR antibody. Thymectomy is also the treatment of choice for those with thymomas and females under age 40 years.
Thus thymectomy is recommended for cases refractory to anti-cholinesterase or steroid treatments particularly severely affected patients experiencing a myasthenic crisis and/or during the peripubertal period.In our department thymectomy is usually not performed for ocular MG but is occasionally an option in certain intractable cases with a morbid period shorter than 2 years when the side effects of drugs are thought to outweigh the risks of thymectomy.The decision to use immunosuppressive agents. is often made reluctantly since these drugs are not covered by the national insurance scheme and also the risk of adverse effects is high in young children even though successful use of immunosuppressive drugs was reported 8. In Japan FK506 is the only insurance-approved immunosuppressive agent for MG but indications for its use are highly restricted. FK506 is approved only for adult generalized MG patients who have undergone thymectomy. There have also been a few reports on the efficacy and safety of FK506 for childhood-onset patients with severe generalized MG with a myasthenic crisis 45. These generalized MG cases showed intractable or fatal symptoms despite strong therapies such as methyl prednisolone pulse intravenous immunoglobulins IVIG plasma exchange or thymectomy.
In treating childhood-onset patients with refractory ocular MG it can be difficult to determine the next step after steroid therapy. For this case we first selected thymectomy but this patient showed no benefits instead experiencing a painful and stressful postoperative course. Since the effect of IVIG persisted for only 1 month we believe that FK506 therapy is better than repeated IVIG induction for sustained control. Our success using FK506 suggests that this drug is a potential therapy even for ocular MG in childhood.Even at the low FK506 concentrations seen in this case a satisfactory effect on symptoms was obtained without adverse effects. It is important to be cautious in small children who require higher doses of FK506 based on body weight than adults because of their accelerated metabolic functions. The 3-year-old girl described herein needed 2.5 mg/day of FK506 while the usual dose for adults is only 3.0 mg/day. In addi-tion though our case was clinically classified as having ocular MG her disease might be classifiable as latent-generalized type as advocated by Segawa 910. Though the patient showed no changes with slow repetitive stimulation e.g.
Her intractable course and high level of anti-AChR antibody were consistent with the latentgeneralized type of MG. This type is considered to more readily progress to the severe generalized type than to the pure ocular type. Our patient continues to have only ocular symptoms but is clearly at high risk for progressing to the generalized type. FK506 introduction might delay or even prevent this progression to the generalized type of MG. The endpoint of FK506 treatment is at least several years after remission of ocular symptoms without steroids.Informed consentInformed consent was obtained from the parents of this patient. We especially carefully explained the possible adverse effect of FK506 such as gastrointestinal symptoms renal failure and glucose intolerance and assured the parents that in the event of these complications we would immediately and aggressively treat these symptoms. Mycophenolate CellCept treatment of myasthenia gravis chronic inflammatory polyneuropathy and inclusion body myositis. end. We report favorable results of the long term use of mycophenolate in the treatment of three patients with myasthenia gravis MG  two  . end. patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy CIDP  one patient with secondary polymyositis PM  and one patient  .
Side effects were mild. Mycophenolate appears to be a useful addition to the armamentarium of immunosuppressants for treatment of chronic immunologically mediated neuromuscular diseases. q 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved. .We report favorable results of the long term use of mycophenolate in the treatment of three patients with myasthenia gravis MG  two  . .patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy CIDP  one patient with secondary polymyositis PM  and one patient  .with inclusion body myositis IBM . Side effects were mild. Mycophenolate appears to be a useful addition to the armamentarium of immunosuppressants for treatment of chronic immunologically mediated neuromuscular diseases. q 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Mycophenolate Myasthenia gravis Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Polymyositis Inclusion body myositis Therapy. 1 end. Introduction. Mycophenolate mofetil is one of the new generation of immunosuppressive agents introduced for the management of patients with organ transplantation.
w xHauser et al. 2 reported a successful use of mycopheno .late in one case of myasthenia gravis MG in 1998. More recently three other papers have reported objective imw xprovement in additional patients 35 . We have been using mycophenolate for 3 years for the treatment of patients with a variety of autoimmune neuromuscular diseases and report our initial experience in seven patients. 2 end. Clinical material and results. We report a good-to-excellent initial response to mycophenolate in three patients with MG two patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy  . .CIDP  one patient with polymyositis PM secondary to Corresponding author. Tel. q1-305-243-7519 fax q1-305-2437525. .E-mail address wbradleymed.miami.edu W.G. Bradley . .limb girdle muscular dystrophy LGMD  and one patient  . .with inclusion body myositis IBM see Table 1 . All  .except Patient 7 see Case History below and Table 2 had been severely disabled by their condition had previously received other immunosuppressive therapies and were not well controlled with other than very high doses of other immunosuppressive treatments that produced significant side effects.Mycophenolate was begun at a dose of 0.5 grday and increased to 1 g twice daily over 23 weeks.
The good response to mycophenolate therapy allowed a reduction in the dosage of other immunosuppressive drugs such as prednisone and high dose intravenous immuno .globulin IVIg infusions. In the two patients with chronic inflammatory polyneuropathy both strength and sensation  .improved. Two patients a5 and 6 relapsed after discon .tinuing mycophenolate. One of these a5 improved again after restarting the drug. After 9 months of mycophenolate  .therapy one patient a3 had a relapse of MG requiring change to cyclophosphamide and plasma exchange. 2.1 end. Case histories. Patient 6 with PM secondary to LGMD improved from being wheelchair-bound to being able to stand and take four steps within 1 month of starting mycophenolate. Abdominal cramps and the cost of medication forced her0022-510Xr01r - see front matter q2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved. .PII S0022-510X 01 00478-6 N .M ow zoon et al.r Journalof the N eurologicalSciences 185 2001 119  122 120 N. Mowzoon et al.rJournal of the Neurological Sciences 185 2001 119122 121to stop the drug after 3 months and she became wheelchair-bound again within 1 month. .Patient 7 see Tables 1 and 2 had a 5-year history of progressive weakness of grip difficulty in getting up from sitting and going up stairs.
On examination she had classical IBM with weakness and wasting of the wrist flexors and tibialis anterior muscles and mild weakness of the biceps iliopsoas and quadriceps muscles. The muscle biopsy was diagnostic. Treatment with prednisone 30 mgrday and mycophenolate 15002000 mgrday resulted in a progressive increase in strength of grip and tibialis anterior mus .cles see Table 2 . The strength of the left tibialis anterior muscle increased fivefold over 12 months. Strength and function began to deteriorate 3 months after discontinuation of prednisone and mycophenolate therapy.Side effects were mild. One patient discontinued mycophenolate after 6 months because of fatigue. One patient had to discontinue mycophenolate because of abdominal pain and the cost of the medication. Three patients had insomnia dizziness or tremulousness but were able to continue mycophenolate treatment. No patient showed a significant change in hematological hepatic or renal function measures.We have used mycophenolate in the treatment of over 25 patients to date including six patients with IBM and most patients have shown a moderate to excellent response. 3 end. Discussion. Mycophenolate is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydrolyzed by the liver to its biologically  .
This achieved a peak serum concentration 13 h after a single w xoral dose 1 . MPA subsequently undergoes glucuronidation in the liver and renal tubular cells to form an inactive  .metabolite mycophenolic acid glucuronide MPAG  whichw xis excreted in the urine and bile 1 . The intestinal microfloral b-glucuronidase deconjugates the MPAG in the intestinal tract to MPA with subsequent reabsorption en.terohepatic recirculation  leading to a second plasma peak w xat 612 h 1 . The quantification of plasma concentrations of total and free MPA and of MPAG by high-performance liquid-chromatography for therapeutic drug monitoring is w xunder investigation 6 . Mycophenolate is an inhibitor of the de novo pathway of purine nucleotide synthesis impairing lymphocyte mitow xsis and proliferation of B- and T-lymphocytes 7 . In addition it reduces the synthesis of E- and P-selectins by the endothelial cells and interferes with the adhesion and penetration of lymphocytes by inhibiting the interaction of the lymphocytic ligands with the endothelial selectin rew xceptors 8 . An increase in apoptosis of activated T cells after renal transplantation that is significantly more than w xwith azathioprine has been reported 9 .
The long-term effects and success in transplant patients has been extensively investigated. Most trials indicate a significant reduction of biopsy-proven rejection and of overall treatment failures after renal allograft transplanw xtations 1 . Additional studies indicate a successful outcome with the use of mycophenolate in cardiac transplant w xand orthotopic liver transplant recipients 1  as well as graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis after allogeneic blood stem cell transplantation when combined with cyclosporine w x10 .w xOur experience confirms other reports 25 that mycophenolate is also an effective and relatively safe immunosuppressive medication for a wide range of immunologically-mediated chronic neuromuscular diseases. Most of our patients experienced a considerable improvement after initiation of therapy with the drug that allowed a reduction of other concomitant immunosuppressive therapy. Mycophenolate has a rapid onset of action and in our hands is better tolerated than many alternative medications. N. Mowzoon et al.rJournal of the Neurological Sciences 185 2001 119122122Controlled trials of mycophenolate as an initial treatment for patients with severe immunological neuromuscular diseases are indicated.
OBJECTIVE To update the 2016 formal consensus-based guidance for the management of myasthenia gravis MG based on the latest evidence in the literature. METHODS In October 2013 the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America appointed a Task Force to develop treatment guidance for MG and a panel of 15 international experts was convened. The RAND/UCLA appropriateness method was used to develop consensus recommendations pertaining to seven treatment topics. In February 2019 the international panel was reconvened with the addition of one member to represent South America. All prior recommendations were reviewed for currency and new consensus recommendations were developed on topics that required inclusion or updates based on recent literature. Up to three rounds of anonymous e-mail votes were used to reach consensus with modifications to recommendations between rounds based on panel input. A simple majority vote 80% of panel members voting yes was used to approve minor changes in grammar and syntax to improve clarity. RESULTS The previous recommendations for thymectomy were updated.
AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. CONCLUSION This updated formal consensus guidance of international MG experts based on new evidence provides recommendations to clinicians caring for MG patients worldwide. Introduction Evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG have historically been difficult to develop because of limited evidence from studies with a low risk of bias such as large well-designed randomized controlled studies RCTs. To address the lack of uniform globally accepted standards for the care of people with MG the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA appointed a Task Force in 2013 to develop treatment recommendations for MG. A panel of 15 international experts in the treatment of MG was convened and in 2016 published an international consensus guidance for management of MG. 1 Results of several new trials of MG treatment have been published since that guidance statement was published and in 2019 the panel reviewed the previous recommendations for currency and identified new topics that may affect practice.
All except PN were voting members PN served as the methodologist. AC CE P ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. Methods Topics informing new recommendations were selected based on a review of studies of treatment of MG published since 2013. Panel members disclosed any conflicts of interest COI using the Neurology COI disclosure form all conflicts were reviewed by the panel co-chairs DS GW. One or two panel members prepared narrative reviews of recent literature and proposed initial recommendations for each topic. Conflicted panel members abstained from participating in the literature review and from developing initial recommendation statements for the conflicted topics but participated in the group discussions and voting to obtain expert consensus for all topics. Topics Identified for Development of Recommendations Based on the availability of new clinical trial data that the panel co-chairs determined may affect previous recommendations or lend themselves to new recommendations the following interventions were selected thymectomy rituximab in MG with antibodies to acetylcholine receptors AChR and muscle specific kinase MuSK eculizumab and methotrexate.
Physical training/exercise was excluded after review because of the low quality of evidence informing recommendations. The RAND UCLA appropriateness method for formal consensus was used to obtain consensus with the same a priori assumptions regarding treatment availability and costs etc. as in the initial guidance document. 1 2 All voting was conducted by e-mail and the responses returned only to AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. the methodologist to avoid the potential for panel members opinions and votes being influenced by others. Topics were voted on sequentially although rounds of voting for different topics frequently overlapped for efficiency. All recommendation statements were edited after the first round of voting by the co-chairs and methodologist in response to the panels suggestions for changes and depending on whether consensus was reached or not. The edited recommendations were sent by e-mail to the panel along with collated panel comments from the previous round for voting. The process was repeated for up to three rounds of voting as needed. Recommendations that did not achieve consensus after three rounds of voting were discarded.
Median and range were calculated for each recommendation to assess appropriateness and agreement per the RAM method. Tables e1e10 summarize all the recommendations of the original guideline that are still current plus those from the present update. Table 1 provides an update of drugs to avoid or use with caution in MG. Results All recommendations below achieved panel consensus agreement as being appropriate  and these recommendations should be considered extensions or additions to recommendations made in the initial international consensus guidance. 1 The range outside of the appropriate category 7-9 indicates the breadth of opinions dispersion within the panel. Thymectomy The multicenter randomized rater-blinded MGTX trial enrolled patients < 65 years of age with acetylcholine receptor antibody positive AChR-Ab generalized non-thymomatous MG of < 5 AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. years duration. 3 Sixty-six subjects underwent extended transsternal thymectomy and received prednisone using a standard dosing schedule while 60 subjects received the standardized prednisone dosing schedule alone.
Secondary outcome measures including azathioprine use intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg use and hospitalizations for MG exacerbations also favored thymectomy plus prednisone. Benefits were seen within the first year and were sustained through year 3. In a post-hoc analysis neither the prednisone dose nor QMG scores were significantly different between the two treatment groups in patients 50 years or older. 3 An extension of the MGTX trial followed 68 61% participants from the original trial for two additional years. At 60 months lower time-weighted average QMG scores and a reduction in average time-weighted prednisone dose favored thymectomy plus prednisone. 4 A recent AAN Practice Advisory recommended that clinicians should discuss thymectomy with patients with AChR Ab generalized MG and should counsel patients considering minimally invasive thymectomy techniques that it is uncertain whether the benefit attained by extended transsternal thymectomy will also be attained by minimally invasive approaches Level B. 5 Recommendations 1a.
Median 9 range 2-9 AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 1b end. Thymectomy should be strongly considered in patients with AChR-Ab generalized MG if they fail to respond to an initial adequate trial of immunotherapy or have intolerable side effects from that therapy. Median 9 range 5-9 2. Thymectomy for MG is an elective procedure and should be performed when the patient is stable and deemed safe to undergo a procedure where postoperative pain and mechanical factors can limit respiratory function. Median 9 range 9 Recommendations 4 and 5 below are unchanged from the 2016 consensus guidance. 1 3 end. Endoscopic and robotic approaches to thymectomy are increasingly performed and have a good track record for safety in experienced centers. Data from randomized controlled comparison studies are not available. Based on comparisons across studies less invasive thymectomy approaches appear to yield similar results to more aggressive approaches.Median 9 range 4-9 4. Thymectomy may be considered in generalized MG patients without detectable AChR-Ab if they fail to respond adequately to immunosuppressive IS therapy or to avoid/minimize intolerable adverse effects from IS therapy.
Median 9 range 6-9 Ocular MG A small RCT comparing prednisone to placebo in 11 ocular MG patients who had previously failed to achieve minimal manifestation MM status after 4-6 weeks of pyridostigmine found that five of six participants 83% in the prednisone group achieved the primary end-point of sustained MM status at a median of 14 weeks on prednisone median dose 15mg/day compared to none of 5 in the placebo group. 6 Three of the five placebo participants switched to prednisone AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 60 mg/day with rapid taper two attained sustained MM status. A prospective cohort study of 13 consecutive ocular and 76 generalized MG patients evaluated the effect of immunosuppressive IS agents on ophthalmoparesis. 7 F fty-nine percent of patients had complete resolution of ophthalmoparesis within 122 months of initiation of IS agents. Patients with milder ophthalmoparesis had greater odds of symptom resolution in the first year of treatment. Median time to resolution was 7 months after IS agents were started. Evidence for the efficacy of thymectomy in ocular MG is limited by the retrospective design of most published studies.
8 A retrospective analysis of 236 patients with thymomatous and non-thymomatous MG reported no improvement after thymectomy in 25 patients of whom 17 68% were ocular or predominantly ocular over 12 months of follow-up. 9 In another retrospective case series of 52 patients with MG only 2 of 11 patients with ocular MG 18% achieved remission post thymectomy in contrast to 28%-50% of generalized MG patients. 10 A retrospective case series of 110 patients with ocular MG who underwent extended transsternal thymectomy reported that at a median follow up of 33.5 months 26% achieved complete remission defined as asymptomatic without medications for 12 months. 11 Five patients had a thymoma. 11 A retrospective case series of 49 non-thymomatous ocular MG and 12 ocular MG with thymoma undergoing thymectomy followed for a mean duration of 9 years reported a cure defined as asymptomatic without need for medications in 51%. 12 In yet another retrospective AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. case series of transcervical thymectomy in MG 57% of 12 patients with ocular MG achieved MGFA post-intervention status PIS of complete stable remission CSR 13 at 5 years.
15 In 12 patients with ocular MG undergoing thymectomy because of an abnormal chest CT scan all but one required additional immunosuppression after thymectomy 6 achieved remission at mean follow-up of 81 months. 16 In a retrospective analysis of 50 juvenile MG patients undergoing thymectomy of whom 46% were ocular 50% showed improved PIS at a mean of 3.5 years follow-up. There was no difference between ocular and generalized MG. In a meta-analysis of 26 studies of thymectomy in non-thymomatous MG the pooled CSR rate was 0.51. 18 There was high heterogeneity in the meta-analysis model indicating substantial differences among the included studies. Recommendations Table e-10 1. Ophthalmoparesis or ptosis in ocular MG that is not responding to anti-cholinesterase agents should be treated with immunosuppressant agents if symptoms are functionally limiting or troublesome to the patient. Median 9 range 7-9 2. Corticosteroids should be used as the initial IS agent in ocular MG. Steroid-sparing IS agents may be needed when corticosteroids alone are ineffective contraindicated or not tolerated. Median 9 range 6-9 3. Data from a single small RCT suggest that low-dose corticosteroids may be effective for ocular MG and may avoid side effects associated with high-dose corticosteroids.
Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 4 end. AChR Ab patients with ocular MG who do not respond adequately to acetylcholinesterases and who either prefer not to take IS therapy or have contraindications to or are refractory to IS agents may be offered thymectomy. Median 8 range 5-9 Rituximab Most studies of rituximab RTX are retrospective and some combine patients with AChR-Ab MuSK-Ab and seronegative MG. A multicenter blinded prospective review of MuSK-Ab MG patients demonstrated that 14 of 24 58% of patients treated with RTX achieved MM status and required only low dose IS therapy compared to 5 of 31 16% of the non-RTX group. 19 In a prospective open label study of 22 refractory AChR-Ab MuSK-Ab and seronegative MG MG Manual Muscle testing MMT scores revealed significant improvement from baseline at mean follow-up of 29 19 months in the AChR-Ab and MuSK-Ab groups. 20 Another prospective open label study of 14 patients with refractory AChR-Ab MuSK-Ab and seronegative MG reported improvement in MMT scores at mean follow-up of 22 months. 21 The time to peak response after a single cycle of RTX was 4.5 1 months.
22 A retrospective Austrian nationwide study of 56 patients with AChR-Ab and MuSK-Ab MG reported that 26% of patients were in remission 3 months after treatment with varying dosing protocols of RTX. At a median of 20 months 43% were in remission and 25% achieved MM status. 23 A single center retrospective study of 21 AChR-Ab 3 MuSK-Ab and 4 double seronegative MG patients found that muscle strength improved significantly from baseline at 6 months and then stabilized up to 36 months and PIS was improved in 43% at 6 months. 24 A AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. retrospective combined analysis of previously published case reports of 169 patients between January 2000 and August 2015 reported that 72% of MuSK-Ab MG and 30% of AChR-Ab MG patients treated with RTX achieved MM status or better. 25 The number of cycles of RTX varied but did not have an effect on the response. A recent systematic review of previous studies of 165 patients with AChR-Ab MG treated with RTX concluded that despite heterogeneous outcome measures significant clinical improvement was seen in 113 patients 68% with 36% achieving remission.
27 Two cycles of RTX 6 months apart were compared to placebo with the primary outcome being a steroid-sparing effect   75% reduction in mean daily prednisone requirements in the 4 weeks prior to week 52 compared to the 4-week period prior to randomization. The study was designed to assess futility non-superiority. Preliminary results reported that the area under the curve for prednisone was not significantly different between RTX and placebo groups with 60% on RTX and 56% on placebo achieving the primary outcome. There were no significant differences in mean QMG or MGcomposite MGC changes between the groups. The study suggests that in mildly to moderately symptomatic generalized AChR-Ab MG RTX is unlikely to have a clinically meaningful steroid-sparing effect over 12 months. Three cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy PML have been reported in MG. One was RTX related although the patient had previously received other IS agents 28 another AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. patient was on azathioprine and prednisone 29 and the third patient was on prednisolone IVIg and azathioprine. 30 Recommendations Recommendation 1 is unchanged from the 2016 consensus guidance. 1 1 end.
Median 9 end. Neurology Publish Ahead of Print DOI 10.1212/WNL.0000000000011124. International Consensus Guidance for Management of Myasthenia Gravis 2020 Update. Pushpa Narayanaswami MBBS DM Donald B. Sanders MD Gil Wolfe MD Michael Benatar MD Gabriel Cea MD Amelia Evoli MD Nils Erik Gilhus MD Isabel Illa MD Nancy L Kuntz MD Janice Massey MD Arthur Melms MD Hiroyuki Murai MD Michael Nicolle MD Jacqueline Palace MD David Richman MD Jan Verschuuren MD. The Article Processing Charge was funded by The Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal.Neurology Published Ahead of Print articles have been peer reviewed and accepted for publication. This manuscript will be published in its final form after copyediting page composition and review of proofs. Errors that could affect the content may be corrected during these processes.AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
Equal Author Contributions. These authors contributed equally to this work Pushpa Narayanaswami MBBS DM Donald B Sanders MD Gil I Wolfe MD. Corresponding Author. end. Pushpa Narayanaswami. pnarayanbidmc.harvard.eduAffiliation Information for All Authors Pushpa Narayanaswami Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center/Harvard Medical School Boston MA USA Donald Sanders Department of Neurology Duke University Medical Center Durham NC USA Gil Wolfe Department of Neurology Univ. at Buffalo Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences State University of New York Buffalo NY USA Michael Benatar Department of Neurology University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. Miami FL USA Gabriel Cea Departamento de Ciencias Neurologicas Facultad de Medicina Universidad de Chile Santiago Chile Amelia Evoli Dipartimento di Neuroscienze Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS Universit Cattolica del Sacro Cuore Roma Italy Nils Erik Gilhus Department of Clinical Medicine University of Bergen Norway Isabel Illa Department of Neurology Hospital Santa Creu i Sant Pau.
Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. Hiroyuki Murai Department of Neurology International University of Health and Welfare Narita Japan. end. Michael Nicolle Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences Western University London ON Canada Jacqueline Palace Department of Clinical Neurology John Radcliffe Hospital Oxford University Hospitals Trust Oxford UK. end. David Richman Department of Neurology University of California Davis Davis CA 95616 USA. Jan Verschuuren Department of Neurology Leiden University Medical Centre Leiden the Netherlands. Contributions. Pushpa Narayanaswami Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data Study concept or design Analysis or interpretation of data Additional contributions Statistical analysis study supervision Donald B.
t Major role in the acquisition of data Gabriel Cea Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data Amelia Evoli Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data Nils Erik Gilhus Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data Isabel Illa Drafting/revision of the manuscrip. t for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data Nancy L Kuntz Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
e manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data Jacqueline Palace Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data David Richman Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the acquisition of data Jan Verschuuren Drafting/revision of the manuscript for content including medical writing for content Major role in the. acquisition of data. Number of characters in title 81. end. Abstract Word count 218. Word count of main text 4284 References 55 Figures 0 Tables 1 Supplemental data doi10.5061/dryad.6hdr7sqxx Statistical Analysis performed by Pushpa Narayanaswami MD Beth Israel deaconess Medical Center/Harvard Medical School Boston MA Search Terms  179  Myasthenia Acknowledgements We acknowledge the support of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.Study funding No targeted funding reported. Disclosures.
Research support from ArgenX Ra Immunovant MGFA Benatar M Advisory Boards Immunovant Viela Bio Site-PI on industry trials UCB Federal funding Site-PI for MGNet U54115054 Cea G No relevant disclosures Evoli A Scientific award jury member for Grifols and a safety data monitor for UCB Gilhus NE Consultant for Ra Pharma Argenx and UCB. Speakers honoraria from Octapharma Alexion and MerckSerono Illa I Consultant and Scientific award jury member for Grifols Kuntz NL Medical advisory boards for Argenx Audentes AveXis Biogen Cytokinetics Roche and Sarepta Massey JM Site PI Revance Therapeutics Melms A Advisory board UCB Murai H Consultant for Alexion Argenx and Ra Speaker honoraria from the Japan Blood Products Organization Research support from the Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare Japan Palace J partly funded by highly speci. alised services to run a national congenital myasthenia service and a neuromyelitis service support for scientific meetings and honorariums for advisory work from Merck Serono Biogen Idec Novartis Teva Chugai Pharma and Bayer Schering Alexion Roche Genzyme MedImmune EuroImmun MedDay Abide ARGENX UCB and Viela Bio and grants from Merck Serono Novartis Biogen Idec Teva Abide MedImmune Bayer Schering Genzyme Chugai and Alexion.
Member of the Advisory Board of Cabaletta Bio Inc. Verschuuren J receives financial support from Target to B consortium Prinses Beatrix Spierfonds and has been involved in trials or consultancies for Argenx Alexion or Ra pharma. AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibitedCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. Member of the European Reference Network for Rare Neuromuscular Diseases ERN EURONMD. end. Abstract end. OBJECTIVE To update the 2016 formal consensus-based guidance for the management of myasthenia gravis MG based on the latest evidence in the literature. METHODS In October 2013 the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America appointed a Task Force to develop treatment guidance for MG and a panel of 15 international experts was convened. The RAND/UCLA appropriateness method was used to develop consensus recommendations pertaining to seven treatment topics. In February 2019 the international panel was reconvened with the addition of one member to represent South America.
Up to three rounds of anonymous e-mail votes were used to reach consensus with modifications to recommendations between rounds based on panel input. A simple majority vote 80% of panel members voting yes was used to approve minor changes in grammar and syntax to improve clarity. RESULTS The previous recommendations for thymectomy were updated. New recommendations were developed for the use of rituximab eculizumab and methotrexate as well as for the following topics early immunosuppression in ocular MG and MG associated with immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment. AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.CONCLUSION This updated formal consensus guidance of international MG experts based on new evidence provides recommendations to clinicians caring for MG patients worldwide. Introduction. Evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG have historically been difficult to develop because of limited evidence from studies with a low risk of bias such as large well-designed randomized controlled studies RCTs.
A panel of 15 international experts in the treatment of MG was convened and in 2016 published an international consensus guidance for management of MG.1Results of several new trials of MG treatment have been published since that guidance statement was published and in 2019 the panel reviewed the previous recommendations for currency and identified new topics that may affect practice. All members of the previous MGFA Task Force participated in this update one new member GC was added to the international panel which now consists of experts from Canada MN Chile GC Germany AM Italy AE Japan HM Norway NEG the Netherlands JV Spain II UK JP and USA PN DS GW MB NK JMM and DPR. All except PN were voting members PN served as the methodologist.AC CEP EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. Methods end. Topics informing new recommendations were selected based on a review of studies of treatment of MG published since 2013. Panel members disclosed any conflicts of interest COI using the Neurology COI disclosure form all conflicts were reviewed by the panel co-chairs DS GW. One or two panel members prepared narrative reviews of recent literature and proposed initial recommendations for each topic.
s were selected thymectomy rituximab in MG with antibodies to acetylcholine receptors AChR and muscle specific kinase MuSK eculizumab and methotrexate. Recommendations were also developed to inform early immunosuppression in ocular MG the role of physical training/exercise in MG and management of MG associated with immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment. Physical training/exercise was excluded after review because of the low quality of evidence informing recommendations.The RAND UCLA appropriateness method for formal consensus was used to obtain consensus with the same a priori assumptions regarding treatment availability and costs etc. as in the initial guidance document.1 2 All voting was conducted by e-mail and the responses returned only toAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.the methodologist to avoid the potential for panel members opinions and votes being influenced by others. Topics were voted on sequentially although rounds of voting for different topics frequently overlapped for efficiency.
The edited recommendations were sent by e-mail to the panel along with collated panel comments from the previous round for voting. The process was repeated for up to three rounds of voting as needed. Recommendations that did not achieve consensus after three rounds of voting were discarded. The panel rated each recommendation for appropriateness on a nine point scale 1-3 inappropriate 4-6 uncertain and 7-9 appropriate. Median and range were calculated for each recommendation to assess appropriateness and agreement per the RAM method. Tables e1- e10 summarize all the recommendations of the original guideline that are still current plus those from the present update. Table 1 provides an update of drugs to avoid or use with caution in MG. Results end. All recommendations below achieved panel consensus agreement as being appropriate and these recommendations should be considered extensions or additions to recommendations made in the initial international consensus guidance.1 The range outside of the appropriate category 7-9 indicates the breadth of opinions dispersion within the panel. Thymectomy.
Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.years duration.3 Sixty-six subjects underwent extended transsternal thymectomy and received prednisone using a standard dosing schedule while 60 subjects received the standardized prednisone dosing schedule alone. An effect favoring thymectomy was seen in both of the coprimary outcome measures reductions in the time-weighted average Quantitative MG QMG score and the time-weighted average alternate-day prednisone dose. Secondary outcome measures including azathioprine use intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg use and hospitalizations for MG exacerbations also favored thymectomy plus prednisone. Benefits were seen within the first year and were sustained through year 3. In a post-hoc analysis neither the prednisone dose nor QMG scores were significantly different between the two treatment groups in patients 50 years or older.3 An extension of the MGTX trial followed 68 61% participants from the original trial for two additional years.
B.5 end. Recommendations. 1a end. In non-thymomatous generalized MG patients with AChR-Ab aged 18-50 years thymectomy should be considered early in the disease to improve clinical outcomes and to minimize immunotherapy requirements and need for hospitalizations for disease exacerbations. Median 9 range 2-9AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.1b. Thymectomy should be strongly considered in patients with AChR-Ab generalized MG if they fail to respond to an initial adequate trial of immunotherapy or have intolerable side effects from that therapy. Median 9 range 5-9 2. Thymectomy for MG is an elective procedure and should be performed when the patientis stable and deemed safe to undergo a procedure where postoperative pain and mechanical factors can limit respiratory function. Median 9 range 9Recommendations 4 and 5 below are unchanged from the 2016 consensus guidance.13. Endoscopic and robotic approaches to thymectomy are increasingly performed and havea good track record for safety in experienced centers. Data from randomized controlled comparison studies are not available.
Thymectomy may be considered in generalized MG patients without detectable AChR-Abif they fail to respond adequately to immunosuppressive IS therapy or to avoid/minimize intolerable adverse effects from IS therapy. Current evidence does not support an indication for thymectomy in patients with MuSK low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 LRP4 or agrin antibodies. Median 9 range 6-9. Ocular MG. end. A small RCT comparing prednisone to placebo in 11 ocular MG patients who had previously. failed to achieve minimal manifestation MM status after 4-6 weeks of pyridostigmine found that five of six participants 83% in the prednisone group achieved the primary end-point of sustained MM status at a median of 14 weeks on prednisone median dose 15mg/day compared to none of 5 in the placebo group.6 Three of the five placebo participants switched to prednisoneAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.60 mg/day with rapid taper two attained sustained MM status.
Patients with milder ophthalmoparesis had greater odds of symptom resolution in the first year of treatment. Median time to resolution was 7 months after IS agents were started.Evidence for the efficacy of thymectomy in ocular MG is limited by the retrospective design of most published studies. In a case control study of 47 patients with non-thymomatous ocular MG who underwent thymectomy matched to 67 patients who refused surgery there was no difference in the proportion of patients achieving stable remission at a median follow-up of 100-116 months.8 A retrospective analysis of 236 patients with thymomatous and non-thymomatous MG reported no improvement after thymectomy in 25 patients of whom 17 68% were ocular or predominantly ocular over 12 months of follow-up. 9 In another retrospective case series of 52 patients with MG only 2 of 11 patients with ocular MG 18% achieved remission post thymectomy in contrast to 28%-50% of generalized MG patients.10. A retrospective case series of 110 patients with ocular MG who underwent extended transsternal.
Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.case series of transcervical thymectomy in MG 57% of 12 patients with ocular MG achieved MGFA post-intervention status PIS of complete stable remission CSR13 at 5 years. 14 A subsequent case series of 151 patients with MG who underwent transcervical thymectomy followed for 5 years showed a higher odds ratio for remission in ocular MG compared to generalized MG without controlling for other variables analysis performed by PN.15 In 12 patients with ocular MG undergoing thymectomy because of an abnormal chest CT scan all but one required additional immunosuppression after thymectomy 6 achieved remission at mean follow-up of 81 months.16 In a retrospective analysis . of 50 juvenile MG patients undergoing thymectomy of whom 46% were ocular 50% showed improved PIS at a mean of 3.5 years follow-up.17 There was no difference between ocular and generalized MG. In a meta-analysis of 26 studies of thymectomy in non-thymomatous MG the pooled CSR rate was 0.51.18 There was high heterogeneity in the meta-analysis model indicating substantial differences among the included studies. Recommendations Table e-10. end. 1 end.
should be treated with immunosuppressant agents if symptoms are functionally limiting or troublesome to the patient. Median 9 range 7-9. 2 end. Corticosteroids should be used as the initial IS agent in ocular MG. Steroid-sparing IS. agents may be needed when corticosteroids alone are ineffective contraindicated or not tolerated. Median 9 range 6-9. 3 end. Data from a single small RCT suggest that low-dose corticosteroids may be effective for. ocular MG and may avoid side effects associated with high-dose corticosteroids. Median 9 range 4-9AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 4 end. AChR Ab patients with ocular MG who do not respond adequately to acetylcholinesterases. and who either prefer not to take IS therapy or have contraindications to or are refractory to IS agents may be offered thymectomy. Median 8 range 5-9. Rituximab. Most studies of rituximab RTX are retrospective and some combine patients with AChR-Ab MuSK-Ab and seronegative MG. A multicenter blinded prospective review of MuSK-Ab MG patients demonstrated that 14 of 24 58% of patients treated with RTX achieved MM status and required only low dose IS therapy compared to 5 of 31 16% of the non-RTX group.19.
MG MG Manual Muscle testing MMT scores revealed significant improvement from baseline at mean follow-up of 29 19 months in the AChR-Ab and MuSK-Ab groups.20 Another prospective open label study of 14 patients with refractory AChR-Ab MuSK-Ab and seronegative MG reported improvement in MMT scores at mean follow-up of 22 months.21 The time to peak response after a single cycle of RTX was 4.5 1 months. A retrospective multicenter study of MuSK-Ab MG reported that RTX given in the dose of 375 mg/m2 weekly for 4 weeks and then monthly for the next 2 months was associated with lower relapse rates 18% compared to a regimen of two 1 gm infusions separated by 2 weeks 80%.22 A retrospective Austrian nationwide study of 56 patients with AChR-Ab and MuSK-Ab MG reported that 26% of patients were in remission 3 months after treatment with varying dosing protocols of RTX. At a median of 20 months 43% were in remission and 25% achieved MM status.23 A single center retrospective study of 21 AChR-Ab 3 MuSK-Ab and 4 double seronegative MG patients found that muscle strength improved significantly from baseline at 6 months and then stabilized up to 36 months and PIS was improved in 43% at 6 months.24 A AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
A recent systematic review of previous studies of 165 patients with AChR-Ab MG treated with RTX concluded that despite heterogeneous outcome measures significant clinical improvement was seen in 113 patients 68% with 36% achieving remission.26 A Phase II RCT of RTX Beat-MG enrolled 52 patients with generalized non-thymomatous AChR-Ab MG on a stable regimen of prednisone for 4 weeks or prednisone plus another IS agent for 6 months.27 Two cycles of RTX 6 months apart were compared to placebo with . the primary outcome being a steroid-sparing effect  75% reduction in mean daily prednisone requirements in the 4 weeks prior to week 52 compared to the 4-week period prior to randomization. The study was designed to assess futility non-superiority. Preliminary results reported that the area under the curve for prednisone was not significantly different between RTX and placebo groups with 60% on RTX and 56% on placebo achieving the primary outcome. There were no significant differences in mean QMG or MG- composite MGC changes between the groups.
One was RTX related although the patient had previously received other IS agents28 anotherAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.patient was on azathioprine and prednisone29 and the third patient was on prednisolone IVIg and azathioprine.30 Recommendations Recommendation 1 is unchanged from the 2016 consensus guidance.11. Rituximab should be considered as an early therapeutic option in patients with MuSK-Ab MG who have an unsatisfactory response to initial immunotherapy. Median 9 range 4-92. The efficacy of rituximab in refractory AChR-Ab MG is uncertain. It is an option ifpatients fail or do not tolerate other IS agents. Median 8 range 4-9. Methotrexate. Studies on the use of methotrexate MTX in MG are limited and the available data do not provide convincing evidence of efficacy.
quired to achieve and maintain MM status was lower in both MTX and azathioprine treated patients but was not different between the groups. At months 10 and 12 the prednisone dose was lower in the MTX group but the confidence interval includes clinically meaningful and nonmeaningful effects. Similar proportions of both groups achieved MM status and there were no differences in QMG or MG-activity of daily living MG-ADL scores between the groups.33 An RCT enrolled 50 patients with AChR-Ab MG taking prednisone at a dose of 10mg/day. 34 AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.Patients were randomized 11 to MTX 20 mg/week or placebo. There was no difference in the primary outcome measure the area under the prednisone dose-time curve between months 4 and. 12 and the mean 12-month change in QMG MMT MG-Quality of life MG-Qol MG-ADL. and MGC were no different between treatment groups. Recommendation. 1 end. While evidence from RCTs is lacking oral methotrexate may be considered as a steroid-sparing agent in patients with generalized MG who have not tolerated or responded to steroid-sparing agents that are better supported by RCT data. Median 9 range 5-9. Eculizumab.
ed measures mixed model of data from all visits revealed significant differences in QMG score favoring eculizumab. Eculizumab was well tolerated. In a phase III international multicenter RCT of 125 patients with refractory generalized non-thymomatous AChR-Ab MG REGAIN the primary outcome measure of change in MG-ADL score from baseline to week 26 measured by worst-rank ANCOVA was not significantly different p00698 between eculizumab and placebo arms.38 However QMG score change on worst-rank ANCOVA all pre-specified secondary endpoints changes in QMG MGC and MG-QOL15 scores and responder analyses of QMG and MG-ADL AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 . The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.scores and multiple sensitivity analyses showed a significant benefit for eculizumab. Participants who completed the 26-week REGAIN study were followed in an open label extension OLE within 2 weeks of completing REGAIN.39 A pre-planned interim analysis of the OLE at 22.7 months median follow-up found a reduction in MG exacerbations by 75% compared to the year before REGAIN. In addition 56% 65/116 of patients achieved MM status or pharmacologic remission.
A clinically meaningful response in MG-ADL and QMG scores was seen in 55% and 39.7% of patients respectively. Eculizumab was well tolerated. One case of meningococcal meningitis occurred despite vaccination in the OLE and the patient was successfully treated.Vaccination against Neisseria meningitidis both meningococcal conjugate MenACWY and serogroup B or MenB is required at least 2 weeks prior to starting treatment with eculizumab. The conjugate ACWY vaccines available in the USA include Menveo 1 dose GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Inc. and Menactra 1 dose single booster 4 years after initial dose if needed Sanofi Pasteur Inc. The two brands of MenB vaccine are Bexsero 2 dose series GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Inc. and Trumenba 3 dose series Pfizer Inc. The brands are not interchangeable and a course should be completed with the same brand of the vaccine for all doses. The vaccine does not confer absolute protection against meningococcal meningitis. Antibiotic coverage for at least 4 weeks after immunization is recommended if eculizumab is started prior to the two-week period post-vaccination. The recommendations for antibiotic coverage vary. Penicillin VK 250-500 mg every12 hours is usually the first line AC CEPTCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
40 41 Erythromycin 500 mg twice daily Azithromycin 500 mg daily or Ciprofloxacin 500 mg daily are alternatives for penicillin allergic patients.40-42 However both fluoroquinolones and macrolides can worsen MG. Chemoprophylaxis of meningococcal infections in penicillin allergic patients can therefore be challenging and infectious disease consultation may be required. Recommendations. 1 end. Eculizumab should be considered in the treatment of severe refractory AChR-Abgeneralized MG. Median 9 range 2-92. The role of eculizumab in the treatment of MG is likely to evolve over time. Until furtherdata become available to allow comparisons of cost and efficacy with other treatments eculizumab should be considered after trials of other immunotherapies have been unsuccessful in meeting treatment goals. Median 9 range 5-93. Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practice ACIP or otherlocal guidelines regarding immunization against meningococcal meningitis should be followed prior to treatment with eculizumab. Median 9 range 8-94.
Median 8 range 4-9. Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors ICIs. Immune checkpoints ICPs are most often inhibitory molecules expressed on the surface of Tcells which modulate the immune response and prevent host tissue damage due to uncontrolled responses to foreign or self-antigens. The immune inhibitory cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associatedAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.protein 4 CTLA-4 programmed cell death protein 1 PD-1 and programmed cell death ligand 1 PDL1 are the best-characterized ICPs and are targeted in cancer immunotherapy. CTLA-4 reduces T-cell activation competing with CD28 in binding B7 molecules CD80 and CD86 on antigen-presenting cells. PD-1 binds its ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2 and reduces activated T-cell proliferation through the inhibition of specific phosphorylation pathways.43 44 Monoclonal antibodies against CTLA-4 PD-1 and PD-L1 act by blocking these inhibitory ICP molecules in order to stimulate antitumor immunity immune checkpoint inhibitors ICIs. These include the CTLA-4 inhibitor ipilimumab PD-1 inhibitors pembrolizumab nivolumab and cemiplimab and the PDL-1 inhibitors atezolizumab durvalumab and avelumab.
The literature on irAEs of these drugs is rapidly evolving. De novo MG has been reported in patients treated with anti-CTLA-4 agents ipilimumab 45 PD1 inhibitors nivolumab or pembrolizumab 45-47 and with combined anti-CTLA-4 plus anti-PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy.45 The estimated frequency of MG among patients treated with PD-1 inhibitors ranges from 0.12% to 0.2%.48-52 Exacerbation of pre-existing MG and subclinical AChR-Ab MG has been reported in patients treated with PD-1 inhibitors.45 53 54. MG onset or exacerbation varies in severity and generally occurs in the early phase of treatment. end. MG can overlap with other immune-mediated peripheral and central neurological syndromes.48. end. 55 In a review of the literature combined with a single center experience of 63 patients with MG. due to ICIs 52 had new onset MG and 11 had a flare of preexisting MG. Most received PD1AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.therapy. Concurrent myositis was diagnosed in 24 patients 37% and myocarditis in five 8% two had the triad of MG/myositis/myocarditis. Median time from ICI initiation to developing. MG was 4 weeks 6 days- 16 weeks. Respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation.
Patients with MG/myositis/myocarditis developed respiratory failure more frequently than those with MG alone 54% vs. 42% end. AChR-Ab titers were elevated in 37/56 66% of tested patients. Three patients had AChR-Ab when tested before ICI initiation and antibody titers increased at least 2-fold after ICI initiation. Intravenous corticosteroids were used in 59/63 patients. Thirty-eight patients received steroids as first line therapy and 24 63% improved. Four patients with ocular MG developed respiratory insufficiency after corticosteroid treatment. MG symptoms completely resolved in 12 patients 19% improved in 34 55% and worsened in 16 26%.51 In a review of 1834 patients receiving ICIs four had MG of whom one was AChR- Ab. Three were associated with myositis. Three MG patients received combined CTLA-4 and PD1 ICIs and one received a CTLA4 ICI. Concurrent occurrence of MG with myocarditis and thyroiditis was also noted.50 The diagnosis of ICI related MG can be challenging. Many cancer patients have fatigue or generalized weakness. The recognition of underlying neuromuscular disease may be delayed by the focus on the oncologic illness. Concurrent myositis may make MG difficult to diagnose especially when associated with ocular and bulbar weakness.
Central nervous system involvement may occur in conjunction with MG or MG-myositis overlap.50 Corticosteroid therapy appears to result in favorable outcomes.50 Recommendations AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.1. The risk of MG and other immune-mediated neurologic illnesses should be discussedwith patients who are candidates for ICIs. Median 9 range 5-92. At this time there is no evidence to either support or refute the utility of AChR antibodytesting in patients without MG prior to starting ICIs. Median 8 range 7-93. MG associated with ICIs is generally severe with a high rate of respiratory crises.Median 8 range 5-94. Pre-existing MG does not constitute an absolute contraindication to the use of ICIs atleast in patients with well-controlled disease MM status or better. However in these patientsa. It may be prudent to avoid combined therapy anti-CTLA-4 plus anti-PD1/PD-L1monoclonal antibodies given the higher potential for severe irAEs.b. Close clinical monitoring particularly of respiratory and bulbar function ismandatory.c.
Median 8 range 5-95. Early aggressive treatment with high-dose steroids in combination with plasma exchangeor IVIg may be required in patients who develop overt MG while on ICIs. The decision to withdraw ICIs is determined by the oncologic status. Median 8 range 7-9Discussion This is an updated formal international consensus guidance of MG experts based on new evidence that has become available since the initial guidance was published in 2016.1 As before these statements are intended as a guide for clinicians worldwide and are not absoluteAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.recommendations for management. They are also not intended for establishing payment policies or drug tiering by payers. This continues to be a living document which will require periodic review and updates to reflect new information relevant to the management of MG.AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.Appendix 1 Authors Name Location Contribution. Pushpa Narayanaswami.
at Buffalo JacobsSchool of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences State University of New York Buffalo NY USAstudy concept and design acquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript study supervision. Michael Benatar MD PhD University of Miami Miller. School of Medicine. Miami FL USAacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content. Gabriel Cea MD Facultad de. Medicina Universidad de Chile Santiago Chileacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual contentAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. Amelia Evoli MD Fondazione Policlinico. Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS Universit Cattolica del Sacro Cuore Roma Italyacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content. Nils Erik Gilhus MD University of Bergen. Norwayacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual contentIsabel Illa MD Hospital Santa Creu i SantPau. Universitat Autnoma de Barcelona Barcelona ERN EURO-NMD and CIBERER U762 Spainacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content. Nancy L Kuntz MD Northwestern Feinberg.
Janice M Massey MD Duke University Medical. Center Durham NC USAacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content. Arthur Melms MD University of Tbingen. Medical Centre Tbingen Germany.acquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content. Hiroyuki Murai MD International University of. Health and Welfare Naritaacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscriptAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.Japan for intellectual content. Michael Nicolle MD Western University London. ON Canadaacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content. Jacqueline Palace BM DM John Radcliffe Hospital. Oxford University Hospitals Trust Oxford UKacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content. David P Richman MD University of California. Davis Davis CA USAacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual contentJan Verschuuren MD Leiden University MedicalCentre Leiden the Netherlandsacquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript for intellectual content These authors contributed equallyReferencesAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
1 end. Sanders DB Wolfe GI Benatar M et al. International consensus guidance for. management of myasthenia gravis Executive summary. Neurology 201687419-425. 2 end. Fitch K Bernstein SJ Aguilar MD et al. The RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method Users Manual. online end. Available at https//www.rand.org/pubs/monographreports/MR1269.html Accessed July 10 2020. 3 end. Wolfe GI Kaminski HJ Aban IB et al. Randomized trial of thymectomy in myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 2016375511-522. 4 end. Wolfe GI Kaminski HJ Aban IB et al. Long-term effect of thymectomy plus prednisone versus prednisone alone in patients with non-thymomatous myasthenia gravis 2-year extension of the MGTX randomised trial. Lancet Neurol 201918259-268. 5 end. Gronseth GS Barohn R Narayanaswami P. Practice advisory Thymectomy for myasthenia gravis practice parameter update Report of the Guideline Development Dissemination and Implementation Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurology 202094705-709. 6 end. Benatar M McDermott MP Sanders DB et al. Efficacy of prednisone for the treatment of ocular myasthenia EPITOME A randomized controlled trial. Muscle Nerve 201653363- 369. 7 end. Europa TA Nel M Heckmann JM. Myasthenic ophthalmoparesis Time to resolution after initiating immune therapies.
8 end. Mineo TC Ambrogi V. Outcomes after thymectomy in class I myasthenia gravis. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 20131451319-1324. 9 end. Evoli A Batocchi AP Provenzano C Ricci E Tonali P. Thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis report of 247 patients. J Neurol 1988235272-276. 10 end. Hatton PD Diehl JT Daly BDT et al. Transsternal radical thymectomy for myasthenia gravis A 15-year review. Ann Thorac Surg 198947838-840. 11 end. Liu Z Feng H Yeung S-CJ et al. Extended transsternal thymectomy for the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. Ann Thorac Surg 2011921993-1999. 12 end. Roberts PF Venuta F Rendina E et al. Thymectomy in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2001122562-568. AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 13 end. Jaretzki A 3rd Barohn RJ Ernstoff RM et al. Myasthenia gravis recommendations for. clinical research standards. Task Force of the Medical Scientific Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. Neurology 20005516-23. 14 end. Shrager JB Deeb ME Mick R et al. Transcervical thymectomy for myasthenia gravis achieves results comparable to thymectomy by sternotomy. Ann Thorac Surg 200274320-326 discussion 326-327. 15 end.
Outcomes after 151 extended transcervical thymectomies for myasthenia gravis. Ann Thorac Surg 2006821863-1869. 16 end. Sommer N Sigg B Melms A et al. Ocular myasthenia gravis response to long-term immunosuppressive treatment. Journal of Neurology Neurosurgery  Psychiatry 199762156- 162. 17 end. Kim AG Upah SA Brandsema JF Yum SW Blinman TA. Thoracoscopic thymectomy for juvenile myasthenia gravis. Pediatric Surgery International 201935603-610. 18 end. Zhu K Li J Huang X et al. Thymectomy is a beneficial therapy for patients with nonthymomatous ocular myasthenia gravis a systematic review and meta-analysis. Neurological Sciences 2017381753-1760. 19 end. Hehir MK Hobson-Webb LD Benatar M et al. Rituximab as treatment for anti-MuSK myasthenia gravis Multicenter blinded prospective review. Neurology 2017891069-1077. 20 end. Beecher G Anderson D Siddiqi ZA. Rituximab in refractory myasthenia gravis Extended prospective study results. Muscle  Nerve 201858452-455. 21 end. Anderson D Phan C Johnston WS Siddiqi ZA. Rituximab in refractory myasthenia gravis a prospective open-label study with long-term follow-up. Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology 20163552-555. 22 end. Corts-Vicente E Rojas-Garcia R Daz-Manera J et al.
Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology 20185710-716. 23 end. Topakian R Zimprich F Iglseder S et al. High efficacy of rituximab for myasthenia gravis a comprehensive nationwide study in Austria. J Neurol 2019266699-706. 24 end. Afanasiev V Demeret S Bolgert F Eymard B Laforet P Benveniste O. Resistant myasthenia gravis and rituximab A monocentric retrospective study of 28 patients. Neuromuscular Disorders 201727251-258. AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 25 end. Tandan R Hehir MK Waheed W Howard DB. Rituximab treatment of myasthenia. gravis A systematic review. Muscle Nerve 201756185-196. 26 end. Di Stefano V Lupica A Rispoli MG Di Muzio A Brighina F Rodolico C. Rituximab in AChR subtype of myasthenia gravis systematic review. Journal of Neurology Neurosurgery  Psychiatry 202091392-395. 27 end. Nowak RJ Coffey C Goldstein J. AAN 2018 Emerging science abstracts Bcell targeted treatment in myasthenia gravis BeatMG - a phase 2 trial of rituximab in myasthenia gravis topline results. Neurology 201890e2182e2194. 28 end. Kanth KM Solorzano GE Goldman MD. PML in a patient with myasthenia gravis treated with multiple immunosuppressing agents. Neurology Clinical Practice 20166e17-e19.
Dawson DM. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in myasthenia gravis. Ann Neurol 198211218-219. 30 end. Gedizlioglu M Coban P Ce P Sivasli IE. An unusual complication of immunosuppression in myasthenia gravis progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Neuromuscul Disord 200919155-157. 31 end. Hartman J Rivner MH. Methotrexate in myasthenia gravis. Clin Neurophysiol 2009120e123-e124. 32 end. Abdou A end. Methotrexate for treatment of myasthenia gravis. Neurology 200768A300. 33 end. Heckmann JM Rawoot A Bateman K Renison R Badri M. A single-blinded trial of methotrexate versus azathioprine as steroid-sparing agents in generalized myasthenia gravis. BMC Neurology 20111197. 34 end. Pasnoor M He J Herbelin L et al. A randomized controlled trial of methotrexate for patients with generalized myasthenia gravis. Neurology 20168757-64. 35 end. Dhillon S. Eculizumab A review in generalized myasthenia gravis. Drugs 201878367- 376. 36 end. Rother RP Rollins SA Mojcik CF Brodsky RA Bell L. Discovery and development of the complement inhibitor eculizumab for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. Nat Biotechnol 2007251256-1264. 37 end. Howard JF Jr. Barohn RJ Cutter GR et al.
Muscle Nerve 20134876-84. AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 38 end. Howard JF Jr. Utsugisawa K Benatar M et al. Safety and efficacy of eculizumab in. anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive refractory generalised myasthenia gravis REGAIN a phase 3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre study. Lancet Neurol 201716976-986. 39 end. Muppidi S Utsugisawa K Benatar M et al. Long-term safety and efficacy of eculizumab in generalized myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 20196014-24. 40 end. Meningococcal infection and eculizumab/complement inhibitors online. Available at https//www.pnhleeds.co.uk/professionals/meningococcal-infection-and-eculizumabcomplement-inhibitors/. Accessed July 10 2020. 41 end. Benamu E Montoya JG. Infections associated with the use of eculizumab recommendations for prevention and prophylaxis. Curr Opin Infect Dis 201629319-329. 42 end. Girgis N Sultan Y Frenck RW Jr. El-Gendy A Farid Z Mateczun A. Azithromycin compared with rifampin for eradication of nasopharyngeal colonization by Neisseria meningitidis. Pediatr Infect Dis J 199817816-819. 43 end. Postow MA Callahan MK Wolchok JD. Immune checkpoint blockade in cancer therapy.
44 end. Topalian SL. Targeting immune checkpoints in cancer therapy. JAMA 20173181647- 1648. 45 end. Makarious D Horwood K Coward JIG. Myasthenia gravis An emerging toxicity of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Eur J Cancer 201782128-136. 46 end. Mohn N Beutel G Gutzmer R Ivanyi P Satzger I Skripuletz T. Neurological immune related adverse events associated with nivolumab ipilimumab and pembrolizumab therapyreview of the literature and future outlook. J Clin Med 20198. 47 end. Moreira A Loquai C Pfohler C et al. Myositis and neuromuscular side-effects induced by immune checkpoint inhibitors. Eur J Cancer 201910612-23. 48 end. Kao JC Brickshawana A Liewluck T. Neuromuscular complications of programmed cell death-1 PD-1 Inhibitors. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep 20181863. 49 end. Suzuki S Ishikawa N Konoeda F et al. Nivolumab-related myasthenia gravis with myositis and myocarditis in Japan. Neurology 2017891127-1134. 50 end. Dubey D David WS Reynolds KL et al. Severe neurological toxicity of immune checkpoint inhibitors growing spectrum. Annals of Neurology 202087659-669. A CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 51 end. Safa H Johnson DH Trinh VA et al. Immune checkpoint inhibitor related myasthenia.
J Immunother Cancer 20197319. 52 end. Xu M Nie Y Yang Y Lu YT Su Q. Risk of neurological toxicities following the use of different immune checkpoint inhibitor regimens in solid tumors A systematic review and metaanalysis. Neurologist 20192475-83. 53 end. Abdel-Wahab N Shah M Lopez-Olivo MA Suarez-Almazor ME. Use of immune checkpoint Inhibitors in the treatment of patients with cancer and preexisting autoimmune disease. Ann Intern Med 2018169133-134. 54 end. Cooper DS Meriggioli MN Bonomi PD Malik R. Severe exacerbation of myasthenia gravis associated with checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy. J Neuromuscul Dis 20174169-173. 55 end. Puwanant A Isfort M Lacomis D Zivkovic SA. Clinical spectrum of neuromuscular complications after immune checkpoint inhibition. Neuromuscul Disord 201929127-133.AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. Aminoglycoside antibiotics. nivolumabIodinated radiologic contrast agents Older reports document increased MG weakness but modern contrast agents appear safer. Use cautiously and observe forworsening.Macrolide antibiotics e.g. erythromycin azithromycin clarithromycinCommonly prescribed antibiotics for gram-positive bacterial infections. May worsen MG.
for eclampsiaduring late pregnancy or for hypomagnesemia. Use only if absolutely necessary and observe for worsening.Procainamide Used for irregular heart rhythm. May worsen MG. Use with caution.Quinine Occasionally used for leg cramps. Use prohibited except in malariain US.Statinse.g. atorvastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin simvastatinUsed to reduce serum cholesterol. May rarely worsen or precipitate MG. Evaluate closely for worsening MG when statin treatment is commenced.Telethromycin Antibiotic for community acquired pneumonia. Associated withhepatoxicity and risk of prolonged QTc interval. Causes severe often fatal worsening in MG. Had been given a black box warning by the US FDA contraindicating use in MG. Drug withdrawn from most markets internationally. Should not be used in MG.Live Attenuated Vaccines Measles Mumps Rubella Varicella Zoster intranasalDo not affect MG but are contraindicated in patients on immunosuppressive treatments because of the risk for adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus orAC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. Influenza oral Polio. end. Adenovirus Type 4 and 7. end. Zostavax Herpes Zoster.
However reported associations do notnecessarily mean these medications should never be prescribed in MG. Reports are often rare or represent a coincidental association. Clinical judgment and the risk-to-benefit ratio of the drug should be considered when it is deemed important for a patients treatment. Listed above are medications that have the strongest evidence for worsening MG.AC CEPT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.DOI 10.1212/WNL.0000000000011124 published online November 3 2020NeurologyPushpa Narayanaswami Donald B. Sanders Gil Wolfe et al. International consensus guidance for management of myasthenia gravis 2020 updateThis information is current as of November 3 2020Services Updated Information 124.full http//n.neurology.org/content/early/2020/11/03/WNL.0000000000011 including high resolution figures can be found atSubspecialty Collectionshttp//n.neurology.org/cgi/collection/myasthenia Myasthenia following collections This article along with others on similar topics appears in thePermissions  Licensinghttp//www.neurology.org/about.
Online ISSN 1526-632X. Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. All rights reserved. Print 1951 it is now a weekly with 48 issues per year. Copyright Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by is the official journal of the American Academy of Neurology. Published continuously sinceNeurology. Myasthenia gravis after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation treated with mycophenolate mofetil monitored by peripheral blood OX40 CD4 T cells. A patient who developed myasthenia gravis MG 25 months after allogeneic bone marrow transplant was immunologically analyzed. OX40CD4 T cells in the peripheral blood prominently increased one month before the onset of MG. CD4/CD8 ratios usually abnormally inverted in patients with chronic graft-vs.-host disease cGVHD showed pseudonormalization during the course of MG. We succeeded in uneventful rapid tapering of prednisolone PSL using mycophenolate mofetil MMF. Monitoring of OX40CD4 T cells supported the tapering of PSL and MMF as a marker of cGVHD activity. This case suggested the utility of MMF and monitoring of OX40CD4 T cells in the management of cGVHD-associated autoimmune diseases.
Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disorder in which circulating autoantibodies against the acetylcholine receptor anti-AchR Ab deteriorate the transmission at the neuromuscular junction leading to skeletal muscle weakness and fatigue. Although about 20% of patients with chronic GVHD cGVHD show anti-AchR Ab 1 the frequency of clinically overt MG after bone marrow transplantation BMT is quite low only 15 well documented cases have been described in the literature 2. There is no marker that can predict development of MG in anti-AchR Ab-positive cGVHD patients.MG associated with cGVHD tends to be lifethreatening often requiring ventilatory support 3 even if remission is achieved with prednisolone PSL tapering of PSL is frequently associated with recurrence requiring long-term maintenance ofimmunosuppressive therapies 4. Useful immunological parameters to predict deterioration and recurrence are awaited.We previously reported that the expression of OX40 CD134 a member of the tumor necrosis factor TNF receptor family on peripheral blood T cells increases in patients who develop cGVHD after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Thus MMF might be effective in suppressing B-cell-mediated autoimmune diseases such as MG 6.Key words myasthenia gravis chronic graft-vs.-host disease OX40 mycophenolate mofetilCorrespondence Atsushi Takahashi MD PhD Department of Hematology and Oncology Graduate School of Medicine Kyoto University 54 ShogoinKawara-cho Sakyo-ku Kyoto 6068507 Japan Tel  81-75-751-4964 Fax  81-75-751-4963 e-mail atakahaskuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jpAccepted for publication 23 October 2002Here we report a case in which the mo. nitoring of peripheral blood OX40CD4 T cells and the administration of MMF were useful in the treatment of cGVHD-associated MG. Case report. A 24-yr-old woman with chronic myelogenous leukemia CML in the chronic phase underwent BMT from her 5/6 serologically human leukocyte antigen HLA-matched brother in October 1998. The recipients HLA typing was A2 B4 B6 B59 B61 Cw1 Cw3 DR4 DR53 DQ4 and the donors was A24 A2 B4 B6 B59 B61 Cw1 Cw3 DR4 DR53 DQ4 which included Cw1 previously identified as a risk factor for MG associated with cGVHD 7. Cyclosporin A was withdrawn on day 22 due to posterior leukoencephalopathy manifesting as cortical blindness and seizure. Weekly methotrexate 15 mg was administered to control GVHD until day 70.
Successful control of the skin rash was attained by combination of azathioprine AZA 50 mg and PSL 20 mg. However a rapid decrease in the dose of either drug caused deterioration requiring 1 yr of slow tapering. Meanwhile OX40CD4 T cells gradually diminished. As usually observed in patients with cGVHD the CD4/CD8 ratio of the peripheral blood T cells remained inverted even after 2 yr of BMT. AZA was discontinued in September 2000 while the patient was on 10 mg PSL.One month after the withdrawal of AZA the peripheral blood OX40CD4 T cell concentration abruptly increased Fig. 1 although the patients skin rash was completely stable without the appearance of new eruptions. At this point the CD4/CD8 ratio normalized to 1.1. A month after the sudden increase in peripheral blood OX40CD4 T cells the patient presented with diplopia bilateral ptosis and mild proximal muscle weakness. Anti-AchR Ab was elevated. Electromyography EMG of the orbicular muscle of the eye revealed a decremental response to repetitive stimulation typical of MG. Pyridostigmine 60 mg and PSL 30 mg were started. As PSL was stepped up to 60 mg ptosis almost resolved and pyridostigmine was tapered off without recurrence of symptoms.
At that point we seriously considered the possibility that the elevation of OX40CD4 T cells indicating continuous cGVHD activity alerts incipient recurrence of MG. Furthermore the patienthad hypercholesterolemia and bilateral cataracts as side-effects of PSL and rapid tapering of PSL seemed desirable. We therefore decided to add MMF and it was started in January 2001. As MMF was escalated to 2 g OX40CD4 T cells decreased markedly Fig. 1 EMG normalized and anti-Ach Ab was completely suppressed. Interestingly the CD4/CD8 ratio inverted again suggesting that the change in CD4/CD8 ratio during the course of MG was pseudonormalization. Subsequently PSL was tapered by 10 mg every 2 wk while confirming that neither significant increases in OX40CD4 T cells and anti-AchR Ab nor clinical symptoms of MG recurred. Next tapering of MMF was started. During tapering of MMF anti-AchR Ab began to elevate. However OX40CD4 T cells remained low and no clinical sign of relapse was noted. We therefore continued to taper MMF.As of May 2002 the patient exhibits no sign of MG or cGVHD of the skin on 5 mg PSL alone. Soluble IL-2 receptor which is often used as a marker of GVHD remained normal throughout the course of MG. Discussion.
Indeed in the present case MG developed 2 months after AZA wasdiscontinued. The peripheral blood OX40CD4 T cells elevated one month prior to the onset of MG. Thus checking OX40CD4 T cells during diminution of doses is potentially an effective approach for safe discontinuation of immunosuppressive drugs.It is noteworthy that the CD4/CD8 ratio in the peripheral blood T cells exhibited pseudonormalization during the course of MG in the present case. Usually CD4/CD8 ratios normalize by 1 yr after BMT 8. However patients with cGVHD tend to have persistently elevated proportions of CD8 T cells and decreased proportion of CD4 T cells in their peripheral blood. In some patients with cGVHD CD4/CD8 ratios remain inverted even 48 months after BMT 9. cGVHD is characterized by heterogeneous manifestations. Most often cytotoxic T lymphocyte CTL-mediated tissue injuries such as to the skin predominate 10. However CD4 helper T-cell-mediated humoral immune responses can also manifest as autoimmune diseases. In the present case the period of elevated CD4/ CD8 ratio coincided with the clinical course of MG an antibody-mediated disease. An attractive possibility is that pseudonormalization of the CD4/ CD8 ratio reflected a shift of autoimmune responses from CTL type to helper T cell type.
In patients with elevated OX40 CD4 T cells additional assessment of the CD4/ CD8 ratio might be useful to surmise the type of autoimmune disease that would develop later.We believe that the expression of OX40 on peripheral blood CD4 T cells can be a valuable marker of the activity of cGVHD-associated autoimmune diseases. When the patient was on 60 mg PSL and the clinical symptoms of MG improved MG might have relapsed as frequently reported in the literature if MMF had not been added and PSL tapered according to the clinical picture. The patient showed mild elevation of anti-AchR Ab without any sign of MG during tapering of MMF while OX40CD4 T cells remained low. It is likely that OX40CD4 T cells are a more specific predictor of recurrence of cGVHD-associated MG than anti-AchR Ab.Using MMF PSL was tapered from 60 mg to 5 mg in as short a time as 6 months withoutrecurrence of MG in this case in contrast to the several years usually taken to taper PSL in MG.
Social disadvantages associated with myasthenia gravis and its treatment a multicentre cross-sectional study. Correspondence to Dr Kimiaki Utsugisawa kutsugis4.dion.ne.jp ABSTRACT Objectives To clarify the social disadvantages associated with myasthenia gravis MG and examine associations with its disease and treatment. Design Cross-sectional study. Setting and participants We evaluated 917 consecutive cases of established MG seen at 13 neurological centres in Japan over a short duration. Outcome measures All patients completed a questionnaire on social disadvantages resulting from MG and its treatment and a 15-item MG-specific quality of life scale at study entry. Clinical severity at the worst condition was graded according to the MG Foundation of America classification and that at the current condition was determined according to the quantitative MG score and MG composite. Maximum dose and duration of dose 20 mg/day of oral prednisolone during the disease course were obtained from the patients medical records. Achievement of the treatment target minimal manifestation status with prednisolone at 5 mg/day was determined at 1 2 and 4 years after starting treatment and at study entry.
In addition 49.0% of the patients reported feeling reduced social positivity. Factors promoting social disadvantages were severity of illness dose and duration of prednisolone long-term treatment and a depressive state and change in appearance after treatment with oral steroids. Early achievement of the treatment target was a major inhibiting factor. Conclusions Patients with MG often experience unemployment unwilling job transfers and a decrease in income. In addition many patients report feeling reduced social positivity. To inhibit the social disadvantages associated with MG and its treatment greater focus needs to be placed on helping patients with MG resume a normal lifestyle as soon as possible by achieving the treatment target. INTRODUCTION Myasthenia gravis MG is a neuromuscular disease that used to be considered severe and was associated with a high mortality rate however owing to current treatments MG has largely become non-lethal. 2 Still even today many patients with MG find it difficult to maintain their daily activity levels due to insufficient improvement in disease status and the long-term side effects of treatment with oral corticosteroids because full remission without steroid treatment is rare in MG.
4 713 Analyses of detailed clinical data have consistently revealed that both disease severity and oral corticosteroid dose have significant negative effects on self-perceived HRQOL among patients with MG. 4 The oral corticosteroid dose has been shown to affect items of the MG-QOL15 a 15-item MG-specific quality of life scale 15 associated with social or community mobility. It is possible that side effects resulting from treatment with corticosteroids such as problems associated with appearance or a depressive state negatively affect personal relationships positive thinking and social activities. 16 Strengths and limitations of this study. To cite Nagane Y Murai H Imai T et al. Social disadvantages associated with myasthenia gravis and its treatment a multicentre crosssectional study. BMJ Open 20177e013278. doi10.1136/ bmjopen-2016-013278 Prepublication history and additional material is available.
th MG find it difficult to maintain their daily activity levels due to insufficient improvement in disease status and the long-term side effects of treatment with oral corticosteroids25 because full remission without steroid treatment is rare in MG.3 4 6 Health-related quality of life HRQOL is reduced in many patients with MG.3 4 713 Analyses of detailed clinical data have consistently revealed that both disease severity and oral corticosteroid dose have significant negative effects on self-perc. eived HRQOL among patients with MG.3 4 The oral corticosteroid dose has been shown to affect items of the MG-QOL15 a 15-item MG-specific quality of life scale14 15 associated with social or community mobility.4 It is possible that side effects resulting from treatment with corticosteroids such as problems associated with appearance or a depressive state negatively affect personal relationships positive thinking and social activities.4 16Strengths and limitations of this study To avoid inclusion . biases we examined consecutive cases. We systematically analysed associations of social disadvantages among a large number of patients with myasthenia gravis using detailed clinical parameters.
BMJ Open 20177e013278. doi10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013278 1Many patients with MG cannot fully participate in social activities due to the effects of the disease and its treatment.4 913 These patients therefore appear to suffer social disadvantages such as unemployment and a decrease in income which can lead to a lower HRQOL.911 13 However information regarding the prevalence of these disadvantages and their detailed associations with MG remains scarce. Therefore we conducted a cross-sectional questionnaire survey to obtain information on social disadvantages experienced by patients with MG. We also examined possible associations with detailed clinical parameters. PATIENTS AND METHODS Patients. This study was conducted at 13 neurological centres  Japan MG Registry Group see online supplementary table S1 in Japan. We evaluated patients with established MG between April and July 2015. To avoid potential bias we enrolled consecutive patients with various disease statuses over a short duration 4 months. During this period a total of 1088 patients with MG visited our hospitals. From this group we were able to collect full detailed clinical data from 923 patients and 165 were excluded from the study because of insufficient data collection.
Among these 923 patients 917 responded completely to a questionnaire we conducted on social disadvantages resulting from MG and its treatment figure 1 provided written informed consent and underwent analysis. The diagnosis of MG was based on clinical findings fluctuating symptoms with easy fatigability and recovery after rest with amelioration of symptoms after intravenous administration of anticholinesterase decremental muscle response to a train of low-frequency repetitive nerve stimuli of 3 Hz or the presence of autoantibodies specific for the acetylcholine receptor AChR of skeletal muscle AChR-Ab or for muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK-Ab.Questionnaire on social disadvantages resulting from M. G and its treatment In the present questionnaire survey figure 1 we first elucidated whether each patient had experienced unemployment an unwilling job transfer and/or a decrease in income figure 1A items 13. For the patients who had experienced a decrease in income we further asked to what degree their previous total income had decreased figure 1A item 4. We also asked whether the patients felt that their social positivity and activity had declined due to MG and/or its treatment figure 1A item 5.
Correlations between the degree 03 of each of the 12 items and each social disadvantage were then calculated table 1. This questionnaire was newly developed for this survey.Clinical factors from examinations and records As shown in table 2 clinical factors were evaluated for each patient and entered into correlation analysis with the social disadvantages. Clinical severity at the worst condition was classified according to MGFA classifications17 and in some patients 792/917 was determined according to the quantitative MG score QMG17 from medical records and partly by analyses of information retrospectively. Clinical severity at the current condition was determined according to QMG and the MG composite MGC18 19 for all patients who completed the Japanese version of the MG-QOL15 MG-QOL15-J3 at study entry.
proposed according to the results of a previous decision tree analysis for good HRQOL.3 The achievement of MM or better-5 mg lasting more than 6 months was determined at 1 2 and 4 years into treatment from medical records and partly by analyses of information retrospectively as well as at study entry. The maximum and current dose of oral PSL and the duration of oral PSL20 mg/day were obtained from the patients medical records. Serum AChR-Ab titres were estimated by radioimmunoassay using 125I--bungarotoxin and levels 0.5 nM were regarded as positive. MuSK-Ab was measured using a commercially available radioimmunoprecipitation assay RSR Cardiff UK. Written informed consent was obtained from all patients participating in the study. Statistical analysis. Associations between various clinical parameters and experiences of social disadvantages were evaluated using Spearman rank correlations. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed in an attempt to determine the parameters most significantly associated with social disadvantages. All continuous data are expressed as the meanSD and range minimummaximum. Statistical analyses were performed using UNISTAT V.5.6 Unistat London UK.2 Nagane Y et al. BMJ Open 20177e013278.
After excluding these patients 185 27.2% out of the remaining 680 answered I have experienced unemployment unemployment rate in the general population of Japan is 34% http//www.stat.go.jp/english/index.htm 28 4.1% answered I have experienced an unwilling job transfer and 244 35.9% answered I have experienced a decrease in income. Out of 244 who reported experiencing a decrease in income 115 47.1% answered that the decrement in total income was 50%. Among the 917 total patients 449 49.0% answered My social positivity and activity were reduced and 486 answered yes to at least one of the question items in figure 1A items 13 and 5. The experiences ofunemployment or unwilling job transfer and that of a decrease in income showed significant correlations to the perception of reduced social positivity and activity r0.35 p<0.0001 r0.35 p<0.0001 Spearman rank correlation.Possible causes perceived by patients and correlations with social disadvantages Correlations between social disadvantages and the degree 03 to which the 486 applicable patients felt that each of the 12 question items in figure 1B were possible causes of these d. isadvantages are shown in table 1.
Significant positive correlations with experience of a decrease in income were long-termFigure 1 Questionnaire on social disadvantages resulting from MG and its treatment. MG myasthenia gravis.Nagane Y et al. BMJ Open 20177e013278. doi10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013278 3>1 month hospital stay for treatment and need to go to hospital for years and those with reduced social positivity and activity were depressive state changes in mood or character after oral corticosteroids changes in appearance after oral corticosteroids and bias for intractable and uncommon diseases from others. Multivariate logistic regression analysis using the 12 items as variables revealed an insufficient control of MG symptoms OR1.35 p0.003 long-term >1 month hospital stay for treatment 1.26 0.009 need to go to the hospital for years 1.34 0.023 and bias for intractable and uncommon diseases from others 1.32 0.014 as independent items correlating to experience of unemployment or unwilling job transfer.
Overall these multivariate regression models picked out similar items to those exhibited univariate correlations with social disadvantages the last paragraph and table 1.Clinical parameters and correlations with social disadvantages The backgrounds of the 917 patients and correlations of clinical parameters with the experience of social disadvantages in applicable patients are shown in table 2. In 680 patients who received income from employment the clinical parameters that exhibited significant positive correlations p<0.0001 r0.15 with experience of unemployment or unwilling job transfer and with experience of a decrease in income were identical these were thymectomy severity at worst condition MGFA classification bulbar symptoms QMG severity at current condition QMG MGC peak dose of PSL and duration of PSL 20 mg/day. Conversely achieving MM or better-5 mg at 1 and 4 years into treatment and at present exhibited significant negative correlations p<0.0001 r0.15. In the 917 patients the clinical parameters that exhibited significant positive correlations p<0.0001 r0.15 with reduced social positivity and activity were female sex severity at worst condition MGFA classification QMG severity at current condition QMG MGC and duration of PSL20 mg/day.
Multivariate logistic regression analyses using the clinical parameters as variables did not function well goodness of fit 2 statistic Hosmer-Lemeshow test p0.11 Cox and Snells pseudo R20.28 for unemployment or unwilling job transfer 0.10 0.18 for experience of a decrease in income and 0.15 0.26 for reduced social Ta b le 1 A ss oc ia tio ns be tw ee n qu es tio n ite m s an d so ci al di sa dv an ta ge s S pe ar m an ra nkco rr el at io nC o rr el at io n 9 5%C I w ithso ci ald is adva n ta g e. sp V al u eQ u estio n item U n emp lo ymen t o r u n w ill in gtr ansf er2 13/4 86ca ses D ecre ase inin com e 2 44/4 86ca ses R edu ced soci alp o si tivity 4 49/4 86ca ses1. In suffi ci ent cont ro lof sy m pt oms 0. 190 .0 95to 0. 285 <0 end. 0001 0 end. 08 0 end. 01to 0 end. 18 0 end. 050 end. 05 0 end. 04to 0 end. 14 0 end. 132 end. D epre ss iv e st at ech ange s inm ood orch ar acte r af te r P S L P S L us e 81 % of su bj ec ts 0. 100 .0 0 to0. 19 0 end. 030 end. 02 0 end. 08to 0 end. 12 0 end. 360 end. 200 .1 0 to0. 28 <0.0 0013. C hang esin appe ar ance af te r P S L P S L use 81% of48 6 part ic ip ants 0. 07 0 end. 03to 0 end. 16 0 end. 100 end. 05 0 end. 05to 0 end. 15 0 end. 140 end. 200 .1 1 to0. 28 <0.0 00 1 4.
05  0 end. 05 to 0 end. 15  0 end. 16 0 end. 13 0 .0 3 to 0. 22  0 end. 00 6 0 end. 12 0 .0 3 to 0. 21  0 end. 00 5 5 end. S id e ef fe ct s re la te d to no nst er oi d im m un os up pr es si ve ag en ts C N I us e 53 %  A Z A us e 5%   0. 02  0 end. 12 to 0 end. 07  0 end. 31 0 end. 05  0 end. 05 to 0 end. 15  0 end. 16 0 end. 08  0 end. 01 to 0 end. 17  0 end. 04 6 end. A dv er se ev en ts re la te d to pl as m ap he re si s 2 8%  0. 04  0 end. 06 to 0 end. 14  0 end. 21 0 end. 07  0 end. 03 to 0 end. 17  0 end. 08 0 end. 04  0 end. 05 to 0 end. 13  0 end. 20 7 end. A dv er se ev en ts re la te d to in tr av en ou s im m un og lo bu lin 1 6%  0. 05  0 end. 05 to 0 end. 15  0 end. 17 0 end. 07  0 end. 03 to 0 end. 17  0 end. 08 0 end. 06  0 end. 03 to 0 end. 15  0 end. 08 8 end. Lo ng -t er m > 1 m on th  ho sp ita ls ta y 0. 20 0 .1 0 to 0. 29  <0 .0 00 1 0. 27 0 .1 9 to 0. 37  <0 .0 00 1  0. 05  0 end. 14 to 0 end. 04  0 end. 12 9 end. S ho rt -t er m  1 w ee k ho sp ita ls ta y 0. 12 0 .0 2 to 0. 24  0 end. 00 6 0 end. 13 0 .0 4 to 0. 23  0 end. 00 3 0 end. 09 0 .0 0 to 0. 17  0 end. 03 10  end. N ee d to go to th e ho sp ita lf or ye ar s 0. 16 0 .0 7 to 0. 26  <0 .0 01 0. 15 0 .0 6 to 0. 25  <0 .0 01 0. 03  0 end. 06 to 0 end. 12  0 end. 25 11  end.
05  0 end. 05 to 0 end. 15  0 end. 16 0 end. 07  0 end. 03 to 0 end. 16  0 end. 10 0 end. 13 0 .0 4 to 0. 21  0 end. 00 2 12  end. B ia s fo r in tr ac ta bl e an d un co m m on di se as es fr om ot he rs 0. 16 0 .0 6 to 0. 26  <0 .0 01 0. 02  0 end. 08 to 0 end. 12  0 end. 35 0 end. 21 0 .1 2 to 0. 30  <0 .0 00 1 S ig ni fic an t co rr el at io ns ar e in di ca te d by bo ld fo nt . A Z A  az at hi op rin e C N I ca lc in eu rin in hi bi to r P S L pr ed ni so lo ne .4 Nagane Y et al. BMJ Open 20177e013278. doi10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013278Nagane Yetal.BM J Open 20177e013278.doi10.1136/bm jopen-2016-0132785O p e n A c c e s sgroup.bm j.comon M arch 16 2017 - P ublished by http//bm jopen.bm j.com/ D ow nloaded frompositivity and activity see online supplementary table S3. These models failed to pick out most of the parameters that exhibited univariate correlations with social disadvantages the last paragraph and table 2. Thus we avoided employing the results of multivariate logistic regression models on discussing correlations of particular clinical parameters to the experience of social disadvantages.
We found that at 4 years into treatment was the most significant time point for achieving MM or better-5 mg in regard to inhibiting experience of unemployment or unwilling job transfer OR 0.61 p0.03 experience of a decrease in income 0.61 0.04 and reduced social positivity and activity 0.49 0.005. Current MG-QOL15-J scores correlated positively with each of these social disadvantages underlined in table 2 suggesting that the current HRQOL of the patients was worse with such experiences. DISCUSSION. The questionnaire results demonstrated that unemployment or an unwilling job transfer after MG onset was experienced by 31.3% of the patients and a decrease in income was experienced by 35.9% among whom 47.1% reported a decrease in total income of more than 50%. In a large German MG cohort 21.0% of the patients experienced hardships in their jobs and 28.3% were forced to retire early due to MG.9 In a study in Thailand the unemployment rate among patients with MG was 2658% and reduced income was seen in 43 48%.10 In a community-based survey of Australian patients with MG 39.4% had been forced to stop working due to MG and 19.4% had to change their occupation.13 Only 40.6% of that cohort were working at the time of the survey and the rest were unable to w.
Therefore a substantial number of patients with MG are burdened with socioeconomic disadvantages. MG may not be a major public health problem in terms of the number of patients affected however in terms of chronic problems due to its lifelong status MG may have a substantial impact both on the patients themselves and on the community.9The causes of these social disadvantages perceived by the patients themselves included bias from others as well as an insufficient control of symptoms and longterm treatment hospital stay >1 month and visiting the hospital for years. In many instances the manifestations of MG are much more evident to the patient than toothers and appear to be frequently misunderstood.20 Fatigue is a very common symptom in MG and this can be misinterpreted for laziness in the context of the workplace.
Participation in work is important because of the financial resources and access to benefits that jobs provide eg health insurance and welfare and also because of a persons sense of self-respect social network and feelings of usefulness and satisfaction.21 22 While at work individuals are stimulated by physical and mental activities.9 Job loss is reportedly associated with worse self-perceived HRQOL and increased adverse health behaviours.22 In the patients with MG in the present study experienc. es of unemployment or unwilling job transfers were consistently significantly correlated with the perception of reduced social positivity and low HRQOL scores. Adjustments in the workplace as well as adequate therapy are therefore important for patients with MG.9Physical disability is naturally linked to occupational status and the likelihood of losing ones job. However among the clinical parameters taken from examinations and patient records in this study both severity of illness worst and current status and dose of oral steroids peak dose of PSL and duration of PSL20 mg/day were positively correlated with unemployment or an unwilling job transfer and a decrease in income.
n income end. On the other hand strangely thymectomy appeared to positively correlate with both unemployment or an unwilling job transfer and a decrease in income. These unexpected associations were most likely due to correlations between thymectomy and other disadvantage-promoting factors such as long-term >1 month hospital stay for treatment r0.27 p<0.0001 peak dose of PSL r0.37 p<0.0001 and duration of PSL20 mg/day r0.37 p<0.0001 Spearman rank correlation. These correlations might have arisen from previous treatment methods in some Japanese institutions in which thymectomy was often followed by6 Nagane Y et al. BMJ Open 20177e013278. doi10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013278high-dose oral steroid therapy using dose escalation and de-escalation. In actuality performing thymectomy itself is considered to have no direct effect on HRQOL1012 or the social disadvantages of patients with MG. Achieving MM or better-5 mg most likely enables patients to live a normal lifestyle without having to worry about complications resulting from steroids3 4 and the achievement of such status negatively correlates with social disadvantages. Interestingly at 1 2 and 4 years into treatment and at present 4 years into treatment appeared to be the most significant time point for inhibiting social disadvantages.
Alternatively for employers a permissible employment time for patients who have uncontrolled illness and/or are experiencing treatment-related side effects may be limited to the first several years after disease onset. In any case an early return to a normal lifestyle at least within the first several years of treatment may be important. Among all patients 49.0% answered that their social positivity and activity was reduced and the selfperceived main causes included depressive state changes in mood or character after oral corticosteroids and changes in appearance after oral corticosteroids. The most significant clinical factor promoting a depressive state in patients with MG is reportedly an insufficient reduction in the dose of long-term oral steroids.16 It is probable that in the patients taking high doses of oral steroids the problems in appearance and depressive state negatively affect personal relationships positive thinking and social activities.4 Therefore for long-term use oral corticosteroids should be given at the lowest possible dose.3 4 16 23 Bias from others and female. sex were also associated with decreased social positivity.
Whether employment status actually was affected at the time when MG was more severe and patients on more medication could not be addressed. It should be also noted that correlation levels of social disadvantages to the question items and clinical factors for MG were statistically significant but generally low. Naturally other factors eg careers and experiences of job and educational backgrounds probably had more significant effects on social activities and disadvantages which should be taken into consideration when interpreting the present results. In conclusion although this study did have some limitations among patients with MG receiving income fromemployment in Japan unemployment or an unwilling job transfer after MG onset was experienced by 31.3% and a decrease in income by 35.9% among whom 47.1% experienced a decrease in total income of more than 50%. Among all patients with MG 49.0% perceived a reduction in their social positivity. Both severity of illness and the way of treatment affected such disadvantages. An early return to a normal lifestyle without corticosteroid complications eg MM or better-5 mg is therefore considered a major factor inhibiting such disadvantages.
Japan 5Department of Neurology Sendai Medical Center Sendai Japan 6Department of Neurology Chiba University School of Medicine Chiba Japan 7Chiba Neurology Clinic Chiba Japan 8Department of Neurology Tokyo Medical University Tokyo Japan 9Department of Neurology Toho University Oh-hashi Medical Center Tokyo Japan 10Department of Neurology Kinki University School of Medicine Osaka Japan 11Department of Neurology Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine Sendai JapanAcknowledgements The authors. would like to thank Dr M Motomura and Dr H Shiraishi Department of Neurology and Strokology Nagasaki University Hospital Dr Y Shimizu and Dr R Ikeguchi Department of Neurology Tokyo Womens Medical University for collecting the patient data. This work was supported by the Japan MG Registry study group.Contributors YN HM TI NK MM MA and KU were involved in study concept and design. YN HM TI DY ET NM YS TK AU NK MM SK HS MA and KU were involved in acquisition of data. YN HM TI DY ET NM YS TK AU NK MM SK HS MA and KU were involved in drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content. YN HM TI DY ET NM YS TK AU NK MM SK HS MA and KU were involved in final approval of the version to be published.
ommons Attribution Non Commercial CC BY-NC 4.0 license which permits others to distribute remix adapt build upon this work noncommercially and license their derivative works on different terms provided the original work is properly cited and the use is non-commercial. See http// creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/. GR gene polymorphism is associated with intersubject variability in response to glucocorticoids in patients with myasthenia gravis. Department of Neurology Beijing Friendship Hospital Capital Medical University Beijing China Department of Neurology George Washington University Washington DC USA Department of Pathology Peking Union Medical College Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Science Beijing Department of Neurology Qilu Hospital of Shandong University Jinan Department of Neurology Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University Qingdao Key Laboratory of Geriatrics Beijing Hospital and Beijing Institute of Geriatrics Ministry. of Health Beijing China and Departments of Pharmacology and Physiology George Washington University Washington DC USA. GR gene polymorphism is associated with inter-subject variability in response to glucocorticoids in patients with myasthenia gravisY. Xieab Y end. Mengc H.-F. Lid Y end. Honge L end. Sunf X end. Zhuf Y.-X. Yued X end.
Wanga Y end. Lia L end. L end. Kusnerg and H. J end. KaminskibaDepartment of Neurology Beijing Friendship Hospital Capital Medical University Beijing China bDepartment of Neurology GeorgeWashington University Washington DC USA cDepartment of Pathology Peking Union Medical College Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Science Beijing dDepartment of Neurology Qilu Hospital of Shandong University Jinan eDepartment of Neurology Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University Qingdao fKey Laboratory of Geriatrics Beijing Hospital and Beijing Institute of Geria. trics Ministry ofHealth Beijing China and gDepartments of Pharmacology and Physiology George Washington University Washington DC USAKeywords glucocorticoid receptor myasthenia gravis single nucleotide polymorphism treatment efficacy variabilityReceived 2 January 2016 Accepted 4 April 2016European Journal of Neurology 2016 0 18doi10.1111/ene.13040Background and purpose Glucocorticoids GCs are the mainstay treatment of myasthenia gravis MG. However wide inter-individual variability exists in the response to GCs. Methods A Chinese cohort of 257 MG patients treated with GCs was evaluated for the association between 19 single nucleotide polymorphisms in the GR gene and clinical response to the initial 3 month GC therapy.
Results The rs17209237 G allele was less frequent in the GC insensitive group compared with the GC sensitive group P  0.013 odds ratio OR 0.119. The rs9324921 A allele was more frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group P  0.046 OR 1.94. Carriers of the rs17209237 G allele were less frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group dominant model P  0.009. Carriers of the rs9324921 A allele were more frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group dominant model P  0.037. Multivariate logistic regression revealed that the rs17209237 G allele carrier P  0.037 OR 0.12 and disease duration before GC treatment P  0.011 OR 3.45 were independent factors that contributed to GC efficacy. Conclusion rs17209237 in the GR gene was identified as an independent factor that contributes to GC efficacy in MG patients. The genetic variations of the GR gene may play a role in predicting response to GC treatment. Introduction. Glucocorticoids GCs are the mainstay of immunedirected treatment for patients with myasthenia gravis MG 12. Retrospective studies demonstrated eithermarked improvement or remission after treatment with GCs of various dosages in MG.
The factors that determine response to GCs have seldom been investigated.Glucocorticoids exert their effects by binding to the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor GR 6. The nuclear receptor subfamily three group C member 1 NR3C1 gene GR gene is the single gene within the human genome which encodes the human GR and probably a candidate gene to influence GC treatment response. The GR gene is located on chromosome 5q31.3 and consists of nine exons 7. Single Correspondence H.-F. Li Department of Neurology Qilu Hospital of Shandong University No. 107 Wenhua West Road Jinan 250012 China tel. 86 532 6685 0769 fax 86 532 6685 0769 e-mail drlhf163.com and H. J end. Kaminski Department of Neurology George Washington University 2150 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington DC 20037 USA tel. 1 202 741 2710 fax 1 202 741 2721 e-mail hkaminskimfa.gwu.edu. These authors contributed equally to this work. 2016 EAN 1O R I G I N A L A R T I C L EE UR OP E AN J OU R NA LO FN E UR OL OG Ynucleotide polymorphism SNP of the GR gene has been found to influence the sensitivity of metabolic parameters to GCs 89. Studies in inflammatory bowel disease and systemic lupus erythematosus demonstrated that GC resistance was associated with certain GR SNPs 1011.
Subjects and methods. end. Study population. Three hundred and forty-two adult MG patients who had not received any immunosuppressant agents were recruited and followed from Beijing Friendship Hospital Capital Medical University and the Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University. The diagnosis of MG was based on typical clinical history evidence of fatigue on physical examination exclusion of alternative diagnoses and a positive result in at least one of three criteria i increased serum level of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody AChRAb ii decremental response to low frequency repetitive nerve stimulation or iii positive response in the neostigmine test.Fifty-two patients were excluded because of contraindication for GCs or refusal to receive GC treatment. The GC treatment started with 0.751 mg/kg/day of prednisone or equivalent methylprednisolone. The dosage of GCs was tapered gradually when there was definite improvement or remained the same at the initial dosage until the end of 3 months. Patients who were given plasma exchange intravenous immunoglobulin and immunosuppressants during this period were excluded from the study Fig. 1 end. Patients who were excluded for other causes are also described in Fig. 1 end.
The onset age ranged from 15 to 80 years 43.4 16.6 years. The disease duration prior to GC therapy ranged from 0.2 to 48 months median 4 months interquartile range 211 months. Patients were stratified by gender onset age 12 involved muscles at disease onset AChRAb presence of thymoma thymectomy and disease duration before treatment Table 1. Patients were followed monthly by the treating neurologists who were experienced in evaluation using the quantitative MG score QMGS 13. Improvement 3 points in QMGS or QMGS becoming zero after treatment was defined as being sensitive to GCs 1415. The control group consistedof 487 healthy individuals during the same period in the two hospitals age and sex matched to the study population. All patients and healthy controls were northern Han Chinese and non-consanguineous. The study was approved by ethical committees of the two hospitals and all participants provided informed consent.AChR acetylcholine receptor GCs glucocorticoids QMGS quantitative myasthenia gravis score. The significant results are highlighted in bold.
The SNP selection strategy was as follows. i Tag SNPs rs4912911 rs12054797 rs9324924 rs9324921 rs4912905 rs17339455 rs852980 rs10482672 and rs258813 were selected using the HapMap database with the software as previously described Han Chinese population minor allele frequency MAF > 0.1 16 in an attempt to cover most of the gene region by linkage disequilibrium Fig. 2 end. ii Functional candidate SNPs regardless of the MAF were rs61757411 in the promoters rs6191 and rs6198 in 30-untranslated regions UTR rs17209237 in 30 near gene and rs104893913 in exon. The selected functional SNPs mainly located at the promotor and 30-UTR. rs104893913 in exon is reported associated with generalized GC resistance 17. iii The SNPs previously investigated are rs7701443 18 rs41423247 10 rs860457 18 and rs6196 818 in autoimmune diseases and rs852977 19 in chronic fatigue syndrome.Thirteen SNPs were genotyped using a customdesigned 2 9 48-Plex SNPscanTM Kit CatG0104 Genesky Biotechnologies Inc. Shanghai China which was based on double ligation and multiplex fluorescence polymerase chain reaction. The other six SNPs rs10482672 rs12054797 rs258813 rs6191 rs852980 rs9324924 were genotyped with the multiplex ligation detection reaction technique Genesky Biotechnologies Inc.
The concordance rate for duplicate genotyping was 100% for all assays. Statistical analysis. Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS Statistics 13 SPSS Corporation Chicago IL USA SHEsis software http//analysis2.bio-x.cn/SHEsisMain.htm Haploview 4.2 software and GraphPad Prism 5 GraphPad Software Inc. La Jolla CA USA. A twoside comparison with P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. The statistical power was determined using the Genetic Power Calculator http//pngu.mgh. harvard.edu/purcell/gpc/cc2.html. Differences between groups were analyzed by the independent sample t test or the MannWhitney U test for continuous variables and by the chi-squared test or Fisher exact test for categorical variables. The association between GC efficacy and the clinical features of MG or GR genotypes was examined by multivariate regression analysis. The Haploview 4.2 software was used to calculate pairwise linkage disequilibrium of SNPs and construct haplotype blocks. Haplotype frequencies were estimated with Partition-Ligation Combination-Subdivision Expectation Maximization PL-CSEM algorithm implemented in SHEsis software. Results end. end. Response to GCs. The QMGS ranged from 1 to 35 median 6 interquartile range 411 at the beginning of GC therapy.
The change of QMGS ranged from 2016 EAN2 to 18 median change 5 interquartile range 38. According to the definition of GC sensitivity 235 patients 91.44% were sensitive and 22 patients 8.56% were insensitive. There was a higher percentage of GC insensitive patients in the group that began treatment 6 months after disease onset than in the group that began within 6 months P  0.027 Table 1. Thymectomy was performed in 32 patients and thymoma was confirmed in all these patients. There was no difference in the proportion of patients who received thymectomy between GC insensitive MG and GC sensitive MG P  0.494 Table 1. No other differences were found in the clinical characteristics of MG between the two groups Table 1.Association between GR gene variation and responseto GCsThe success rates of genotyping the 19 SNPs amongst MG patients and healthy controls were more than 97.7%. No patients and healthy controls had the rs104893913 polymorphism. Genotypes of the other 18 SNPs in the healthy controls were consistent with HardyWeinberg equilibrium P  0.201.00 Table S1.The rs17209237 G allele of the GR gene was less frequent in the GC insensitive MG group than in the GC sensitive group 2.38% vs.
16.32% P  0.015 OR 0.125 95% CI 0.0170.915. The rs9324921 A allele was more frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group 38.10% vs. 24.13% P  0.046 OR 1.94 95% CI 1.003.74 Table S1 and the healthy control group 39.10% vs. 23.09% P  0.025 OR 2.05 95% CI 1.083.89. No difference in the frequencies of the rs9324921 A or the rs17209237 G allele was observed between the GC sensitive and healthy control groups 24.13% vs. 23.09% P  0.665 17.03% vs. 16.32% P  0.738 respectively. And no difference in the frequencies of the rs9324921 A or the rs17209237 G allele was observed between the MG patients and healthy control groups 25.30% vs. 23.09% P  0.346 15.81% vs. 16.32% P  0.799 respectively. No difference in allele frequencies was observed for the remaining tested SNPs between the GC insensitive and GC sensitive groups. The statistical powers were 81% for rs17209237 and 54% for rs9324921.The rs17209237 G carriers GA  GG genotypes were less frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group 4.8% vs. 31.9% dominant model P  0.009. The rs9324921 A carriers CA  AA genotypes were more frequent in the GC insensitivegroup than in the GC sensitive group 66.7% vs. 43% dominant model P  0.037 Table S1.
40.8% dominant model P  0.275 29.6% vs. 30.6% dominant model P  0.789 respectively. GR haplotypes and GC efficacy. The linkage disequilibrium test amongst 19 SNPs is shown in Fig. 3 end. Three haplotype blocks were constructed. The first block ranged from rs852977 to rs860457 D0  1.0 the second from rs17339455 to rs41423247 D0 ranging from 0.91 to 1.0 the third from rs4912911 to rs61757411 D0  1.0. The significant association was restricted to the second block rs17339455 rs4912905 rs9324921 and rs41423247. Five common haplotypes were identified across the second block ranging in frequency from 37.8% to 5.8% amongst all patients TCCG 37.8% TGAG 25.3% TGCG 18.9% CGCC 12.0% TGCC 5.8% Table 2. The frequency of haplotype TGAG was higher in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group 38.1% vs. 23.9% OR 1.95 P  0.043 95% CI 1.013.78. This haplotype contained the risk allele rs9324921 A. Factors contributing to GC efficacy. The frequencies of three variables differed between the GC insensitive group and the GC sensitive group rs9324921 A carrier rs17209237 G carrier and disease duration before GC treatment.
rs17209237 G carriers P  0.037 OR 0.12 95% CI 0.020.88 and disease duration >6 months before GC treatment P  0.011 OR 3.45 95% CI 1.338.94 were found to be independent factors of GC insensitivity.Response to GCs amongst MG patients subgroupedby GR genotypesNext the response to GCs was compared amongst MG patients subgrouped by GR genotypes Fig. 4 end. The change of QMGS was significantly higher in patients carrying the rs17209237 G allele median 6 interquartile range 38 than in patients with the AA genotype median 5 interquartile range 37 2016 EANP  0.010 Fig. 4a end. The change of QMGS after GC treatment was significantly lower in patients carrying the rs9324921 A allele median 4 interquartile range 27 than in patients with the CC genotype median 5 interquartile range 38 P  0.015 Fig. 4b. end. Discussion. Amongst MG patients receiving standardized GC treatment an SNP in the 30 flanking region of the GR gene rs17209237 A/G was identified as an independent factor that contributes to GC sensitivity. Anintronic SNP rs9324921 C/A and a haplotype TGAG containing this SNP were found as potential risk markers for GC insensitivity.
GRa is the dominant isoform of the GR binding GCs and mediatingFrequencyv2 P OR 95% CISensitive Insensitive 2016 EANits effects by modulating downstream genes 22. GRb acts as a major negative inhibitor of GRa activity by competitively binding to GR-interacting proteins 23. Elevated levels of GRb have been associated with GC resistance in autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis ulcerative colitis and systemic lupus erythematosus 24. A limited number of functional GR SNPs rs41423247 Bcl I rs6195 N363S rs6198 GR-9b and rs6189  rs6190 ER22/23EK have been well studied and found to be associated with susceptibility to autoimmune diseases or response to GC therapy 692527. The rs41423247 and rs6195 were associated with sensitivity to GC treatment 69. In vitro data showed that the rs6198 polymorphism led to a more stable GRb mRNA and was possibly associated with GC resistance 9. The two linked SNPs in codons 22 and 23 rs6189  rs6190 of the GR gene were associated with decreased GC sensitivity 9. To our knowledge there has been no study of the association between GR genetic polymorphisms and response to GCs in MG patients. The nine tag SNPs in the GR gene in the present study covered most of the gene region by linkage disequilibrium.
The rs6195 and rs6189  rs6190 were not genotyped because previous studies by Syed et al. 28 and ourselves 29 identified no polymorphisms of these SNPs in Asian populations. No association was found between rs6198 and the response to GCs in the present study.The rs17209237 G allele was found in association with GC sensitivity in the present study. It is located in the 30 flanking region of the GR gene which may affect the formation of the 30 end of the transcript and encodes enhancers or other protein binding sites 30. The differences in frequencies of the rs17209237 allele and genotypes between GC insensitive and sensitive patients with adequate statistical power as wellas the independent role found in multivariate regression analysis suggest that it is a probable marker for GC sensitivity in MG. The rs9324291 is a tag SNP located in intron 2 and is found in close linkage with the rs41423247 in the present study. The rs41423247 Bcl I is located 647 bp inside intron 2 and known to affect alternative splicing of the GR gene and rs41423247 C has been reported associated with sensitivity to GCs 3132.
Early GC therapy was found to reduce the risk of generalization of ocular MG 3334. MG may become treatment resistant over time when there is more immunologically mediated damage of the neuromuscular junction and epitope spreading during the chronic immunological reactions.This study focused on a cohort of untreated patients and assessed treatment response to initial GC treatment. The standardized GC treatment was consistent with the GC protocol in a recent guideline 5. In many MG centers GCs are the only initial immunosuppressive treatment. Detection of GR polymorphisms may sort out the patients with potential poor response to GCs in whom immunosuppressive agents should be recommended earlier. The role of polymorphism of the GR gene in the long-term response to GCs also needs to be explored.In summary the present study indicates that two SNPs in the GR gene rs17209237 and rs9324921 play a role in the response to GCs in MG. As far as is known this study is the first to demonstrate an association between a genetic variation in the GR geneFigure 4 QMGS changes in MG patients with different genotypes after 3 months of GC treatment.
b The median change in QMGS in MG subjects carrying the rs9324921 CC genotypes was significantly higher than in subjects with the rs9324921 CA/AA genotype P < 0.05. 2016 EANand treatment response to GCs in MG. Additional replication studies in independent populations are needed to confirm the results and their potential impact on treatment decisions for patients with MG. Acknowledgements. This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China no. 81070963 no. 81400068 Beijing Natural Science Foundation no. 7142042 and Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation no. ZR2010HM019. Disclosure of conflicts of interest. The authors declare no financial or other conflicts of interest.Supporting InformationAdditional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this articleTable S1. Nineteen SNPs associated with a beneficial effect of glucocorticoid therapy. OPTHA261259 2051..2056.
ompared with moderate doses in ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Patients and Methods A retrospective chart review of patients with adult-onset age 15 years old OMG who were treated with prednisolone was conducted. Subjects were divided into two groups according to their prednisolone dosing regimen. The low-dose group was defined as those with an average 12-week cumulative dose of prednisolone <0.435 mg/ kg/day and the moderate-dose group averaged 0.4351.000 mg/kg/day. The primary outcome of interest was the comparison of clinical response to prednisolone at 12 weeks between the low-dose and moderate-dose groups. The secondary outcome was the difference in adverse events between treatment groups. Results Of 34 subjects 16 subjects 47.1% were male. The mean age at onset was 44.0 18.1 years. The most common presenting ocular feature was ptosis with ophthalmoplegia 22 subjects 64.7% followed by isolated ptosis nine subjects 26.5% and isolated ophthalmoplegia three subjects 8.8%. Half of the subjects were treated with low-dose prednisolone and the other half were treated with moderate-dose prednisolone. There were no substantial differences in baseline characteristics between treatment groups.
Adverse events were exclusively observed in the moderate-dose group. Conclusion Treatment of OMG with an average 12-week cumulative dose of prednisolone <0.435 mg/kg/day low dose shows a comparable responsive outcome to 0.4351.000 mg/ kg/day of prednisolone moderate dose. Treating OMG with low-dose prednisolone can minimize prednisolone-related adverse events. However a prospective randomized controlled trial with a larger study population is warranted in order to gain more insight into the proper dosage of prednisolone for OMG. OR I G I N A L R E S E A R C HInitial Treatment Response in Ocular Myasthenia Gravis A Comparison Between Low and Moderate Doses of PrednisoloneThis article was published in the following Dove Press journal Clinical OphthalmologyThanatporn Threetong 12 Anuchit Poonyathalang 1 Pisit Preechawat1 Panitha Jindahra3 Tanyatuth Padungkiatsagul 1 Kavin Vanikieti11Department of Ophthalmology Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital Mahidol University Bangkok Thailand 2Department of Ophthalmology Faculty .
Patients and Methods A retrospective chart review of patients with adult-onset age 15 years old OMG who were treated with prednisolone was conducted. Subjects were divided into two groups according to their prednisolone dosing regimen. The low-dose group was defined as those with an average 12-week cumulative dose of prednisolone <0.435 mg/ kg/day and the moderate-dose group averaged 0.4351.000 mg/kg/day. The primary outcome of interest was the comparison of clinical response to prednisolone at 12 weeks between the low-dose and moderate-dose groups. The secondary outcome was the difference in adverse events between treatment groups. Results Of 34 subjects 16 subjects 47.1% were male. The mean age at onset was 44.0 18.1 years. The most common presenting ocular feature was ptosis with ophthalmoplegia 22 subjects 64.7% followed by isolated ptosis nine subjects 26.5% and isolated ophthalmoplegia three subjects 8.8%. Half of the subjects were treated with low-dose prednisolone and the other half were treated with moderate-dose prednisolone. There were no substantial differences in baseline characteristics between treatment groups.
Adverse events were exclusively observed in the moderate-dose group. Conclusion Treatment of OMG with an average 12-week cumulative dose of prednisolone <0.435 mg/kg/day low dose shows a comparable responsive outcome to 0.4351.000 mg/ kg/day of prednisolone moderate dose. Treating OMG with low-dose prednisolone can minimize prednisolone-related adverse events. However a prospective randomized controlled trial with a larger study population is warranted in order to gain more insight into the proper dosage of prednisolone for OMG. Keywords ocular myasthenia gravis low dose moderate dose prednisolone treatment outcome. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease with autoantibodies against the acetylcholine receptor muscle-specific kinase MUSK lipoprotein-related protein 4 LRP4 or agrin in the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction.1Clinical presentation depends on the muscles involved but the hallmark of MG is fluctuation between normal function and muscle weakness which worsens over the Correspondence Tanyatuth Padungkiatsagul Department of Ophthalmology Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospita. l Mahidol University 270 Rama VI Road Bangkok 10400 Thailand Tel 662 201 1526 Fax 662 201 2729 Email bluc16hotmail.com. Clinical Ophthalmology Dovepress.
This work is published and licensed by Dove Medical Press Limited. The full terms of this license are available at https//www.dovepress.com/ terms.php and incorporate the Creative Commons Attribution  Non Commercial unported v3.0 License http//creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/. By accessingthe work you hereby accept the Terms. Non-commercial uses of the work are permitted without any further permission from Dove Medical Press Limited provided the work is properly attributed. For permission for commercial use of this work please see paragraphs 4.2 and 5 of our Terms https//www.dovepress.com/terms.php.Clin ical Oph thal mol ogy dow nloa ded from http s//w ww .dov epre ss.c om/ b y45 .148 .232 .40 on3 1-Ju l-202 0F orp erso nal u seo nly.Powered by TCPDF www.tcpdf.org1 / 1course of prolonged muscular activity. Ocular myasthenia gravis OMG is a subgroup of this disease in which weakness is restricted to the ocular muscles levator palpebrae superioris orbicularis oculi and extraocular muscles whereas in generalized myasthenia gravis GMG weakness manifests in muscles other than the ocular muscles.
ymptomatic therapy immunosuppressive drugs are the treatment modality of choice.Prednisolone is the first-line medication used for bridging therapy that is before other immunosuppressants methotrexate azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil reach levels sufficient for their therapeutic effects. Prior observational studies suggest that prednisolone treatment achieves clinical improvement and reduces the risk of developing GMG.8 The dosing regimens of oral prednisolone vary among studies the standard dosing regimen of prednisolone has not been established because well-controlled studies are sparse. In one review prednisolone was started at a relatively low dose of 20 mg/day then increased by 510 mg/day every 3 days until symptoms resolved.2 Another study startedTable 1 Definitions of Treatment ResponsesTreatment Response Ptosis OphthalmoplegiaResponsiveComplete remission No ptosis without treatment No ophthalmoplegia without treatment Major improvement No ptosis with treatment No ophthalmoplegia with treatment Minor improvement Some decrease in ptosis with treatment Some decrease in ophtha.
legia 10/17 58.8 12/17 70.6AChR Ab positive n % 3/14 21.4 4/13 30.8Electromyography n %  RNS positive 2/10 20.0 1/9 11.1  SFEMG positive 9/9 100.0 7/8 87.5Edrophonium test positive n % 8/9 88.9 6/8 75.0Ice-pack test positive n % 8/10 80.0 6/9 66.7Abnormal thyroid function test n % 6/16 37.5 6/17 35.3 Presence of thymoma/thymic hyperplasia n % 0/9 0.0 4/15 26.7Abbreviations AChR Ab acetylcholine receptor antibody RNS repetitive nerve stimulation SFEMG single-fiber electromyography.submit your man. uscript  www.dovepress.com DovePress Clinical Ophthalmology 2020142052Clin ical Oph thal mol ogy dow nloa ded from http s//w ww .dov epre ss.c om/ b y45 .148 .232 .40 on3 1-Ju l-202 0F orp erso nal u seo nly.Powered by TCPDF www.tcpdf.org1 / 1prednisolone at 10 mg/day for 2 days followed by 20 mg/day for 2 days then the dose was increased to 5060 mg/day for 1 week and then gradually reduced by 10 mg/day each week until a level of 10 mg/day was reached and then further reduced by 2.5 mg/day each .
Materials and Methods. Study Design A retrospective cohort study was performed at a single tertiary center the Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital Mahidol University Bangkok Thailand. Case inclusion criteria were 1 adult subject age 15 yearsold with a diagnosis of OMG and 2 received predniso-lone dosage did not exceed 1 mg/kg/day as a treatmentfor OMG. The diagnosis of OMG was made according to one of the following methods.1. Improvement of ptosis and/or ophthalmoplegia afterintravenous edrophonium hydrochloride injection edrophonium test 2. Presence of serum acetylcholine receptor antibodyAChR Ab3. Abnormal repetitive nerve stimulation RNS orsingle-fiber electromyography SFEMG4. Ptosis reversal with ice-pack test.Individuals who had concomitant thyroid-associatedophthalmopathy who were younger than 15 years old atonset who were prescribed immunosuppressive drugsconcomitantly and/or who converted to GMG during 12weeks of treatment were excluded.
is 2/6 33.3 3/3 100.0 0.17 Ophthalmoplegia 0/1 0.0 1/2 50.0 1.00 Ptosis with ophthalmoplegia 7/10 70.0 9/12 75.0 1.00AChR AbNegative 5/11 45.5 6/9 66.7 0.41 Positive 2/3 66.7 3/4 75.0 1.00Thyroid function testNormal 4/10 40.0 7/11 63.6 0.40 Abnormal 4/6 66.7 6/6 100.0 0.46Abbreviation AChR Ab acetylcholine receptor antibody.Clinical Ophthalmology 202014 submit your manuscript  www.dovepress.com DovePress 2053Clin ical Oph thal mol ogy dow nloa ded from http s//w ww .dov epre ss.c om/ b y45 .148 . .232 .40 on3 1-Ju l-202 0F orp erso nal u seo nly.Powered by TCPDF www.tcpdf.org1 / 1exclusion criteria. All enrolled subjects were seen betweenJanuary 2011 and December 2018. Approval for this studywas obtained from the Institutional Review Board of theFaculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital MahidolUniversity. The study was conducted according to thetenets of the Declaration of Helsinki.Demographic data including age of onset and gender presenting ocular features ptosis and/or ophthalmoplegia presence of AChR Ab results of electromyography testing RNS and SFEMG and the edrophonium test ice-pack test thyroid function test and the presence of thymoma/ thymic hyperplasia were reviewed.All subjects received pyridostigmine as an adjunct to oral prednisolone.
The prednisolone dosing regimen was adjusted based on each individuals response to oral prednisolone by the treating physicians. The dose was not to exceed 1 mg/kg/day. The average 12-week cumulative dose of prednisolone was calculated as the total prednisolone mg received during 12 weeks divided by the number of days taking prednisolone and then divided by body weight in kilograms. According to our knowledge no standard cut-off level between low and moderate doses of prednisolone has been described in prior studies. Therefore subjects were grouped according to average 12- week cumulative dosage low-dose and moderate-dose groups using the median of the average 12-week cumulative dose of prednisolone from all subjects 0.435 mg/kg/ day as the cut-off in order to allocate subjects to both treatment groups equally. This cut-off level was determined after the data collection process. The low-dose group consisted of patients who received an average 12- week cumulative dose of prednisolone of <0.435 mg/kg/ day and those in the moderate-dose group received 0.4351.000 mg/kg/day.Treatment response data were collected after 12 weeks of treatment before other immunosuppressants methotrexate azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil achieved their therapeutic effects.
Treatment response was graded according to the categories of Kim et al complete remission major improvement minor improvement or no response or deterioration.11 The definitions of treatment response are summarized in Table 1. Complete remission major improvement and minor improvement were classified as responsive while no response and deteriorationwere classified as non-responsive. Subgroup analyses by age of onset gender presence of AChR Ab presenting clinical features and thyroid function test were carried out. As a secondary outcome we examined adverse events in both groups.Statistical Analysis Fishers exact test was used to compare the incidence of treatment responses between the two treatment groups. A significance level of P<0.05 two-tailed was used for hypothesis testing. Results end. The medical records of 34 subjects were retrospectively reviewed. The age of onset was 44.018.1 years mean SD. The most common presenting ocular feature was ptosis with ophthalmoplegia 22 subjects 64.7% followed by isolated ptosis nine subjects 26.5% and isolated ophthalmoplegia three subjects 8.8%. There were 17 subjects in each treatment group. In the low-dose group the average 12-week cumulative dose was 0.23 0.11 mg/kg/day meanSD.
There were no substantial differences between the treatment groups with respect to baseline characteristics Table 2. The age of onset was 50.118.0 years meanSD in the low-dose group and 37.916.1 years meanSD in the moderate-dose group. There were 10 males 58.8% in the low-dose group and six 35.3% in the moderate-dose group. Three presenting clinical features were observed in both groups isolated ptosis six subjects 35.3% in the low-dose group and three subjects 17.6% in the moderate-dose group isolated ophthalmoplegia one subject 5.9% in the low-dose group and two subjects 11.8% in the moderate-dose group and ptosis with ophthalmoplegia 10 subjects 58.8% in the low-dose group and 12 subjects 70.6% in the moderate-dose group.Of those tested for AChR Ab the result was positive in three of 14 subjects 21.4% and four o. f 13 subjects 30.8% in the low- and moderate-dose groups respectively. In the electromyography study SFEMG was positive more often than RNS in both groups SFEMG 100.0% and 87.5% RNS 20.0% and 11.1% in the lowand moderate-dose groups respectively. The edrophonium test and ice-pack test were also performed in both treatment groups.
Abnormal thyroid function results were found in six subjects in each treatment group 37.5% in the lowdose group and 35.3% in the moderate-dose group. Chest computed tomography CT screening for thymoma or thymic hyperplasia was conducted in nine and 15 subjects in the low- and moderate-dose groups respectively. No thymoma or thymic hyperplasia was observed in the lowdose group whereas four subjects in the moderate-dose group demonstrated thymoma or thymic hyperplasia Table 2.With regard to the treatment response definition Table 1 a higher response rate was achieved in the moderate-dose group compared with the low-dose group 13 subjects 76.5% and nine subjects 52.9% respectively. However this trend did not reach statistical significance P0.28. In subgroup analyses there were no statistically significant differences in response rates between treatment groups based on the age of onset gender presenting clinical features and presence of AChR Ab or thyroid function test Table 3.Adverse events while on prednisolone therapy were documented in four subjects 23.5% of the moderatedose group but none were reported in the low-dose group. The most common adverse event was insomnia two subjects. The others were steroid-induced myopathy one subject and a skin abscess one subject.
Discussion. This study was designed to shed light on the efficacy and safety of low-dose prednisolone for the treatment of patients with OMG who did not show adequate clinical improvement with symptomatic treatment pyridostigmine. To our knowledge this is the first study on OMG patients to perform a comparison between low-dose and moderate-dose prednisolone in terms of the initial treatment response at 12 weeks before other immunosuppressants exert their therapeutic effects.The primary outcome analysis showed that nine of 17 subjects 52.9% and 13 of 17 subject 76.5% achieved a responsive outcome in the low- and moderate-dose groups respectively. Although the moderate-dose group showed a trend toward a higher responsive outcome the difference did not reach the level of statistical significance P0.28. Subgroup analyses also lacked evidence to support a difference in responsive outcome between these two therapeutic groups among subgroups based on age ofonset gender presenting clinical features presence of AChR Ab and thyroid function test. These results suggest that low-dose prednisolone was comparable to the moderate dose in terms of initial treatment response.
Treatment failure was observed in only 17% of subjects in the low-dose group.10Our secondary outcome was the collection of adverse events which were exclusively found in the moderatedose group the adverse events included insomnia steroidinduced myopathy and skin abscess. Consistent with the prior study our results support the safety of low-dose prednisolone for OMG.12 Only minor adverse events were documented in our study. However in patients taking prednisolone specific monitoring measures should be in place to reduce the risks of severe adverse events including worsening blood glucose level excess weight gain worsening blood pressure upper gastrointestinal bleeding osteoporosis avascular necrosis of the hip joint and infectious disease.The strengths of our study are as follows 1 it was the first study to compare low and moderate doses of prednisolone for OMG in terms of initial treatment response 12 weeks and 2 . the doses of prednisolone in our study were calculated per body weight kg which should help in generalization to different populations regardless of body weight.This study had some limitations. First our study design was a retrospective analysis with variable clinical evaluations and investigation patterns which resulted in missing data.
Second because of the small number of subjects our study may not have been adequately powered to detect differences in treatment response between treatment groups. With a larger study population differences may have reached statistical significance. Third our study did not focus on the time to treatment response during the 12 weeks. Fourth the dosage of prednisolone was not determined prior to the initiation of treatment. Subjects in theClinical Ophthalmology 202014 submit your manuscript  www.dovepress.com DovePress 2055Clin ical Oph thal mol ogy dow nloa ded from http s//w ww .dov epre ss.c om/ b y45 .148 .232 .40 on3 1-Ju l-202 0F orp erso nal u seo nly.Powered by TCPDF www.tcpdf.org1 / 1moderate-dose group may have had treatment failure fromlow-dose prednisolone and then in order to achieve a responsive result the dose of prednisolone may havebeen increased until the average cumulative dose reachedthe moderat. e-dose group range. Therefore the proportion of subjects in the low-dose group with a responsive outcome may be lower than reported. The final drawback of our study was the variability of dosing regimens pre-scribed among the treating physicians.
Further prospective and randomized controlled studies to compare the efficacy of low-dose and moderate-dose prednisolone are encouraged to confirm our results. These could lead toa new standard treatment guideline being established toaddress this disease with optimism maximize therapeutic responses and minimize adverse events. Conclusions. Treatment of OMGwith an average 12-week cumulative dose of prednisolone <0.435 mg/kg/day low dose showsa comparable responsive outcome to 0.4351.000 mg/kg/dayof prednisolone moderate dose. Treating OMG with lowdose prednisolone can minimize prednisolone-related adverseevents. However a prospective randomized controlled trial with a larger study population is warranted in order to gainmore insight into the proper dosage of prednisolone for OMG. Acknowledgment. We thank Claire Barnes from Edanz Group for editing a draft of this manuscript. Disclosure. The authors report no conflicts of interest in this work. This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public commercial or not-forprofit sectors. Steroids and immunosuppressant drugs in myasthenia gravis. INTRODUCTION Myasthenia gravis MG is a neuromuscular disorder characterized by fluctuating painless muscle weakness.
In the remaining 85% of patients MG becomes generalized usually by descending to involve the bulbar muscles followed by the neck proximal limb and sometimes respiratory muscles. Severe bulbar or respiratory weakness constitutes a myasthenic crisis which can require intubation and mechanical ventilation. Mechanistically MG is an autoimmune disorder of neuromuscular transmission usually caused by antibodies to postsynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChRs.1 The antibodies reduce the number of functional AChRs thereby impairing neuromuscular transmission. Approximately 15% of patients with generalized MG do not have detectable AChR antibodies2 however sera from these AChRantibody-negative patients contain other immune factors including IgG antibodies to musclespecific tyrosine kinase MuSK in a fraction of cases <40%.3 Activation of B cells and T cells is important in the pathogenesis and immunoregulation of MG a detailed explanation of the immune activation is beyond the scope of this article and the topic has been extensively reviewed elsewhere. 45 Estimates of the annual incidence of MG range from about 1 in 10000 to 1 in 50000 of the population.6 The natural history is characterized by exacerbations and remissions.
The mechanisms of action of immunosuppressant drugs in MG fall into three main categories inhibition of the cell cycle azathioprine cyclophosphamide methotrexate and mycophenolate mofetil immunosuppression of T cells steroids ciclosporin and tacrolimus and B-cell depletion rituximab. Data on immunosuppressant drugs in MG derive mainly from clinical experience observational studies and expert opinion. The main drawbacks of the randomized evidence are the small size of most drug trials variations in study design and a lack of head-to-head studies. It is therefore difficult to determine the relative efficacy of each immunosuppressant. Oral prednisolone usually started at a low dose on an alternate-day regimen and gradually increased is the recommended firstchoice short-term immunosuppressant. Long-term immunosuppression regimens vary between different countries and physicians. Azathioprine is often the first-choice drug for long-term immunosuppression and it is usually started together with steroids to allow tapering of steroids to the lowest dose possible. Methotrexate mycophenolate mofetil or tacrolimus should be considered in patients who are intolerant of or unresponsive to azathioprine.
Data on rituximab use in MG are sparse but the initial results are promising. Single Fiber EMG as an Outcome Measure in Myasthenia Gravis Results from a Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial. In a placebo-controlled therapeutic pilot trial of mycophenolate mofetil MM in autoimmune myasthenia gravis MG the authors compared pretreatment and posttreatment single fiber electromyography SFEMG jitter measurements performed on the same muscle in a total of 11 patients. The mean jitter value decreased improved by an average of 15.4 s in patients receiving MM n 6 compared to an increase worsening in mean jitter of 4.0 s in patients receiving placebo n 5. This difference was statistically significant P 0.030. In most patients the change in SFEMG measurements correlated with the change in clinical state as measured by quantitative testing of muscle function. The authors conclude that immunomodulation by MM improves neuromuscular junction function in MG and that SFEMG may be a useful marker of early response in future therapeutic trials in autoimmune MG. Single Fiber EMG as an Outcome Measure in Myasthenia Gravis Results from a Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled TrialMatthew N. Meriggioli and Julie RowinDepartment of Neurological Sciences Rush University and Rush-Presbyterian-St.
The mean jitter value decreased improved by an average of 15.4 s in patients receiving MM n 6 compared to an increase worsening in mean jitter of 4.0 s in patients receiving placebo n 5. This difference was statistically significant P 0.030. In most patients the change in SFEMG measurements correlated with the change in clinical state as measured by quantitative testing of muscle function. The authors conclude that immunomodulation by MM improves neuromuscular junction function in MG and that SFEMG may be a useful marker of early response in future therapeutic trials in autoimmune MG. Key Words Single fiber electromyography JitterMyasthenia gravisMycophenolate mofetilOutcome measure.The measurement of outcomes and treatment efficacy in clinical trials of autoimmune myasthenia gravis MG is complicated by the marked variability of signs and symptoms characteristic of the disease. Recently there has been increasing interest in using measures of biologic activity as surrogates for clinical end points in other diseases Holloway and Dick 2002 Kelloff et al. 2000 Wingerchuk and Noseworthy 2002. These surrogate outcome measures are not necessarily meant to be used as primary outcomes but as one of a number of secondary outcomes.
Although SFEMG is widely accepted as a sensitive diagnostic tool in the evaluation of patients with neuromuscular junction disorders there is little data regarding the use of SFEMG as a measure of disease severity and response to treatment Howard and Sanders 1981 Konishi et al. 1981. As part of a therapeutic trial of mycophenolate mofetil MM in MG Meriggioli et al. in press we performed SFEMG studies before and after treatment with MM or placebo. METHODS end. We conducted a randomized double blind placebocontrolled therapeutic trial of MM in suboptimally controlled MG and the full results of that study are in press Meriggioli et al. in press. One of the secondary measures of efficacy was the magnitude of the change in mean jitter comparing baseline values to values obtained after 5 months on the study drug. Supported in part by Roche Pharmaceuticals Co. Grant CEL 132 and by a grant from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Illinois. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Matthew N.
Patients end. Patients with autoimmune MG between the ages of 18 and 80 with or without prior thymectomy were eligible for the study. The diagnosis of MG was made on the basis of the clinical presentation and confirmed by either positive acetylcholine receptor binding antibodies AChRAbs or by electrodiagnostic testing demonstrating a primary defect in neuromuscular transmission. If patients had undergone thymectomy the procedure must have been performed at least 12 months before entry into the study. Patients were allowed to remain on concomitant immunotherapy with prednisone or cyclosporine. If on prednisone the dose was required to be stable for a period of 4 weeks. If on cyclosporine a stable dose for 3 months before entry was required. Patients on azathioprine were excluded. Plasmapheresis or intravenous immune globulin was prohibited both during the study and for 1 month before entry into the study. We excluded patients with purely ocular disease patients with severe oropharyngeal weakness and patients with thymoma. Study Design. Stability of disease was assessed during a 1-month pretreatment observation period. Quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG scores Barohn et al. 1998 were performed at the beginning and the end of this 1-month period.
The clinical evaluator performing the QMG scores was blinded to the patients previous QMG scores. The baseline QMG score was defined as the average of the two scores obtained during the observation period.Jitter measurements were obtained using the method of voluntary activation Sanders et al. 1979 at the end of the 1-month observation period and were repeated at the end of the 5-month treatment period. All studies were performed on a 2-channel EMG system Advantage Medical London Ontario Canada by a single examiner M.N.M. using standard single fiber EMG needles. The muscle selected was chosen on the basis of clinical involvement and ease of testing extensor digitorum communis for all. The extensor digitorum communis muscle was clinically weak by manual muscle testing in all subjects. Jitter was measured in 20 potential pairs. The mean jitter mean consecutive difference MCD of all potential pairs the number of potentials having jitter exceeding the upper limit of normal and the number of potential pairs with impulse blocking were determined.
All study procedures were performed in the morning and patients were instructed to withhold their morning dose of pyridostigmine if applicable until after the testing was completed. The study protocol was approved by the Rush University Institutional Review Board and approved informed consent procedures were followed. Measures of Efficacy. The change in the magnitude of the SFEMG abnormalities change in mean MCD served as a secondary measure of efficacy in this study. The primary measure of efficacy was the change in the QMG score. Manual muscle testing Sanders et al. 2002 and acetylcholine receptor binding antibody titers served as additional secondary measures of efficacy. For all efficacy measures the change was defined as baseline measurements minus measurements at the time of exit from the study. An intention-to-treat analysis was used. Statistical analysis. Data were summarized as percentages means or medians AChRAbs as appropriate. Wilcoxon rank-sum tests comparing the MM and placebo groups were conducted for quantitative measures. All tests were twosided and the significance level was set at 0.05. RESULTS end. Fourteen patients were randomly assigned to receive either MM or placebo. The clinical characteristics of the 14 randomized patients are summarized in Table 1.
20 No end. 5 2003disease after 27 days on the study drug. She was removed from the study received appropriate therapy plasmapheresis and was classified as a treatment failure. One patient in the placebo group developed gross hematuria subsequently found to be due to nephrolithiasis and was withdrawn after 3 months of treatment. A single patient in the placebo group was disqualified after 3 months due to protocol violation. Thus 11 patients had baseline and posttreatment SFEMG measurements 6 patients in the MM group and 5 patients in the placebo group.The results for the different measures of efficacy are summarized in Table 2. The SFEMG data are summarized in Table 3. The SFEMG abnormalities improved in all patients in the MM group while the results were scattered in the placebo group Fig. 1 end. This difference was statistically significant. DISCUSSION.
ects end. Some degree of both interexaminer and intraexaminer variability would appear to be inherent in the technique of voluntarily activated SFEMG. Interexaminer variation was not a factor in this study because a single examiner performed all studies. Straube et al. 1994 measured jitter and fiber density in the same muscle in control subjects repeatedly over a course of 30 days and found that the jitter did not change significantly 30.1 3.6 s on day 0 compared to 34.5 2.7 s on day 30 suggesting that the technique is reproducible.Howard and Sanders 1981 reported that in most patients with MG changes in disease severity correlate with changes in jitter measurements. When the mean MCD decreased by at least 10% definite clinical improvement was observed in 80% of patients. In our study five of six patients in the MM group improved by 10% or greater compared to one of five patients in the placebo group. Of the five patients whose MCD improved in the MM group four showed clinical improvement based on QMG manual muscle testing or both the other patient was clinically unchanged. The one patient in the placebo group who had a lowered MCD demonstrated no significant clinical change during the course of the study.
mean change baseline exit for all except AChRAbs which are medians.TABLE 3. Single fiber EMG summaryDescription Placebo MM P-valueMean % normal initial 37 43 Mean % normal final 39 57 Mean difference final initial 0.2 20.17 0.14 Mean % blocking initial 28.7 20.7 Mean % blocking final 23.2 10.5 Mean difference final initial 1.4 12.8 0.17 Mean MCD in sec initial 70 66.4 Mean MCD in sec final 69.3 60.52 Mean difference MCD  secinitial final 4.02 15.37 0.030MM mycophenolate mofetil MCD mean consecutive difference. % normal percent of fiber pairs with normal jitter  % block-ing percent of fiber pairs with neuromuscular blocking.J Clin Neurophysiol Vol. 20 No end. 5 2003It is possible that mean MCD may actually worsen in patients with improved neuromuscular function if the percentage of fiber pairs with severe blocking decreases so that jitter becomes measurable at previously blocked endplates. This does not appear to be the explanation for the findings in patient 13 because the percentage of fiber pairs with neuromuscular failure actually increased in this patient. Thus despite evidence of improved clinical function the physiologic abnormality in the tested muscle actually worsened.
However continued follow-up of this patient after completion of the trial revealed a clinical deterioration 4 weeks later that required an increase in prednisone dose this disease exacerbation was perhaps predicted by the SFEMG results.In general more severe disease was not necessarily associated with higher jitter values in our study. This is not surprising because jitter studies vary markedly among MG patients with similar weakness Sanders 2002 Sanders et al. 1979 Sanders and Stalberg 1996. For this reason the severity of disease in an individual patient cannot be determined by the magnitude of the jitter alone. However in individual patients jitter measurements may be a sensitive indicator of changes in disease state Howard and Sanders 1981 Konishi et al. 1981. While the clinical applicability of serial jitter studies is debatable it is possible that these studies may provide potentially valuable information on the physiologic response to therapeutic intervention. CONCLUSIONS. Our findings in this study suggest that SFEMG jitter measurements are a potentially useful and sensitive marker of response to therapy in therapeutic trials of autoimmune MG.
The main limitation of this study is the small sample size. The study was designed to provide pilot dataregarding the safety and tolerability of MM in patients with MG and to identify trends suggesting efficacy that could be tested in larger controlled trials. Randomized controlled clinical trials involving larger numbers of patients are needed to clarify the clinical significance of changes in jitter values and to confirm their validity as a clinical trial end point. The importance of studying history lessons learnt from a trial of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis. In writing about reason and common sense in his Life of reason George Santayana observed that those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. Regrettably this aphorism is true of clinical trials in myasthenia gravis MG. Yoshikawa and colleagues report the results of a randomised double blind placebo controlled trial of tacrolimus in patients with MG see page 970. Ironically the authors cite as models for their protocol two recent trials that similarly failed to show efficacy of mycophenolate mofetil in MG and probably for the same reasons.
Prednisone dose was gradually tapered beginning at week 4 the primary outcome measure was the average daily dose of prednisone during the last 12 weeks of the trial. Average daily doses of prednisone were w14 mg/day in both groups at study entry and 5 mg/day and 6.5 mg/day in the tacrolimus and placebo groups respectively during the last 12 weeks of the trial. Interleukin 2 IL2 levels were no different between the two groups throughout the study. There are several aspects of the design of this trial that make the results unsurprising including the population targeted by the inclusion and exclusion criteria and the duration of treatment. This trial aimed to recruit patients with MG who were in minimal manifestation status while taking relatively low doses of prednisone and there was no requirement for steroid dependence however defined. As such this is precisely the population in which one would expect to be able to further reduce the dose of prednisone without triggering an exacerbation of disease. Furthermore all available evidence from previously conducted randomised controlled trials in MG suggests that the steroid sparing effect of drugs such as tacrolimus emerges only after prolonged treatment.
As such it would be surprising if a steroid sparing effect of tacrolimus became apparent within a period as short as 28 weeks. An important strength of this trial was the investigators use of a biomarker of drug activitydblood IL2 levels. Tacrolimus is expected to exert its effect via inhibition of calcineurin and hence IL2 production. The result is suppression of antigen specific T cell proliferation. Perhaps unexpectedly IL2 levels were comparable between the placebo and tacrolimus treated groups throughout the study suggesting that the selected dose of 3 mg/day was insufficient to achieve the desired biological effect. Unfortunately as with so many previous randomised controlled trials in the MG population the design of this randomised controlled trial was inadequate to address the question at hand. Because of the inadequacies of trial design the negative results do not even permit the conclusion that tacrolimus is ineffective in MG. We are left with the same uncertainty we had before the trial began. This experience should serve as a call to arms for the MG scientific community to collectively revisit our approach to the design of randomised controlled trials. As it happens the MG scientific community has already recognised this need.
A consensus document summarising the deliberations and recommendations of this Task Force is currently in preparation and will hopefully serve as a useful beacon to guide future randomised controlled trials in MG. In the interim investigators who are planning and implementing studies would be wise to review the history of MG clinical trials. The importance of studying. history lessons learnt from a trial of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis Michael Benatar1 Donald Sanders2In writing about reason and common sense in his Life of reason George Santayana observed that those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. Regrettably this aphorism is true of clinical trials in myasthenia gravis MG. Yoshikawa and colleagues1 report the results of a randomised double blind placebo controlled trial of tacrolimus in patients with MG see page 970. Ironically the authors cite as models for their protocol two recent trials that similarly failed to show efficacy of mycophenolate mofetil in MG and probably for the same reasons.This was a 28 week study in which patients with MG who were in minimal manifestation status authors definition on prednisone 10e20 mg/day were randomised to receive either placebo or tacrolimus 3 mg/day.
Average daily doses of prednisone were w14 mg/day in both groups at study entry and 5 mg/day and 6.5 mg/day in the tacrolimus and placebo groups respectively during the last 12 weeks of the trial. Interleukin 2 IL2 levels were no different between the two groups throughout the study.There are several aspects of the design of this trial that make the results unsur-prising including the population targeted by the inclusion and exclusion criteria and the duration of treatment. This trial aimed to recruit patients with MG who were in minimal manifestation status while taking relatively low doses of prednisone and there was no requirement for steroid dependence however defined. As such this is precisely the population in which one would expect to be able to further reduce the dose of prednisone without triggering an exacerbation of disease. Furthermore all available evidence from previously conducted randomised controlled trials in MG suggests that the steroid sparing effect of drugs such as tacrolimus emerges only after prolonged treatment.
An important strength of this trial was the investigators use of a biomarker of drug activitydblood IL2 levels. Tacrolimus is expected to exert its effect via inhibition of calcineurin and hence IL2 production. The result is suppression of antigen specific T cell proliferation. Perhaps unexpectedly IL2 levels were comparable between the placebo and tacrolimus treated groups throughout the study suggesting that the selected dose of 3 mg/day was insufficient to achieve the desired biological effect. Unfortunately as with so many previous randomised controlled trials inthe MG population the design of this randomised controlled trial was inadequate to address the question at hand. Because of the inadequacies of trial design the negative results do not even permit the conclusion that tacrolimus is ineffective in MG. We are left with the same uncertainty we had before the trial began. This experience should serve as a call to arms for the MG scientific community to collectively revisit our approach to the design of randomised controlled trials. As it happens the MG scientific community has already recognised this need.
A consensus document summarising the deliberations and recommendations of this Task Force is currently in preparation and will hopefully serve as a useful beacon to guide future randomised controlled trials in MG. In the interim investigators who are planning and implementing studies would be wise to review the history of MG clinical trials.Competing interests MB was a consultant to Bayhill and Cytokinetics on drug development for myasthenia gravis. DS was a consultant to Bayhill Therapeutics Cytokinetics and GSK on drug development for myasthenia gravis.Provenance and peer review Commissioned not externally peer reviewed.Received 10 February 2011 Accepted 11 February 2011J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 201182945. doi10.1136/jnnp.2011.243931. TWO STEPS FORWARD ONE STEP BACK MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL TREATMENT FOR MYASTHENIA GRAVIS IN THE UNITED STATES.
EDITORIAL Muscle Nerve 51 635637 2015. TWO STEPS FORWARD ONE STEP BACK MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL TREATMENT FOR MYASTHENIA GRAVIS IN THE UNITED STATES. end. TED M end. BURNS MD1 DONALD B. SANDERS MD2 HENRY J. KAMINSKI MD3 GIL I. WOLFE MD4. PUSHPA NARAYANASWAMI MD5 and JURGEN VENITZ MD PhD61 University of Virginia Department of Neurology Charlottesville Virginia USA 2 Duke University Dept of Neurology Durham North Carolina USA 3 George Washington University Dept of Neurology Washington DC USA 4 University of Buffalo Dept of Neurology Buffalo New York USA 5 Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center/Harvard Medical School Boston Massachusetts USA 6 School of Pharmacy Medical College of Virginia of Virginia Commonwealth Richmond Virginia U. SABefore the 1930s approximately two-thirds of patients with myasthenia gravis MG died from their disease.12 These unfavorable odds improved steadily over the 20th century first with the introduction of cholinesterase inhibitors and thymectomy in the 1930s34 followed by the gradual acceptance of corticosteroids5 and later of other immunotherapies such as therapeutic apheresis6 intravenous immunoglobulin IVIG7 cyclosporine8 azathioprine9 and mycophenolate mofetil.1013 Advances in mechanical venti.
The recent coverage denials are impacting patients who have been on MMF for many years including many who are in pharmacological remission and others hoping to start the drug. The denials are of grave concern because MMF has been widely used for generalized MG since the early 2000s. In a study of 6 million insured US persons for example 13% of 1288 MG patientswere taking MMF14 thus this apparent trend in denials has the potential to impact thousands of patients in the US as well as their families friends employers and care providers. As anyone who cares for MG patients knows switching out MMF for an alternative is not without risks and challenges azathioprine has a delayed onset of action many months and less favorable side effect profile IVIG and therapeutic apheresis are both much more expensive invasive and inconvenient and corticosteroids which many of these patients are already taking51417 have well-known serious side effects which are costly in their own right.
a which many insurers in the US e.g. Medicare refer to when making coverage and policy decisions especially for off-label use.18 When a drug is used in a way that is different from that described in the FDAapproved drug label it is said to be an off-label use. Off-label can mean that the drug is 1 used for a different disease or medical condition 2 given in a different way such as by a different route or 3 given in a different dose.19 Almost all treatments for MG are off-label because of the first reason. New uses for these drugs may have been found and often medical evidence supports the use but the makers of the drugs have not put them through the formal lengthy and costly studies required by FDA to officially approve the drug for new uses. For a rare disease such as MG a diseaseIts not what you look at that matters its what you see.Henry David ThoreauCorrespondence to T.M. Burns e-mail tmb8rvirginia.eduVC 2015 Wiley Periodicals Inc. Published online 23 February 2015 in Wiley Online Library wileyonlinelibrary. com end. DOI 10.1002/mus.24608Editorial MUSCLE  NERVE May 2015 635without FDA-approved maintenance immunotherapy the recent MMF denials unfortunately illustrate how much power these compendia hold power that once rested more with treating physicians and their patients.
These events raise larger questions such as the depth and breadth of clinical knowledge the compendias physician advisors have for all diseases including rare diseases and whether our professional societies and sections such as the American Association of Neuromuscular and Electrodiagnostic Medicine AANEM and the Neuromuscular Section of the American Academy of Neurology should play a larger role in influencing the selection of drug compendia experts.To briefly review why we consider MMF a treat. ment option for MG the rationale for use over the past 15 years has been based on years of anecdotal clinical experience in thousands of patients encouraging retrospective studies1013 and its favorable safety profile. A bump in the road occurred in 2008 when 2 randomized controlled trials RCTs did not demonstrate additional benefit of MMF over prednisone as initial immunosuppression over 3 months or a steroid-sparing effect over 9 months.2021 Several reasons these RCTs may have had negative results include the relatively short duration of the trials problems with the endpoints and the greater-than-predicted response to prednisone which might have masked MMF benefit.2223 For example the duration of the trials .
Unfortunately many have interpreted these trials to show that MMF should not be used in MG. It is thus important to emphasize that although these imperfect trials did not prove efficacy they did not show that MMF is not efficacious in MG absence of proof is not proof of absence. It is also important to note that neither trial evaluated the efficacy of MMF as monotherapy. A retrospective study published in 2010 argued for efficacy of MMF in generalized MG both as monotherapy and when combined with prednisone.12 In this study the percentage of patients on MMF monotherapy who achieved a predefined favorable outcome was> 50% at 7  12 months and> 60% at 13  18months.12 Based on previous reports indicating that only approximately 15% of MG patients achieve complete stable remission off medications51617 the proportion of patients who achieve a favorable outcome on MMF . monotherapy was much higher than would be expected if MMF was not effective.
disease end. And we are left to wonder whether this particular moment is a call to arms or a battle lost in the war for practicing medicine based on best available evidence in conjunction with clinical experience and acumen. Myasthenia gravis exacerbation after discontinuing mycophenolate. Objective To determine whether discontinuation or marked reduction of mycophenolate mofetil MMF in patients with myasthenia gravis MG causes MG exacerbations. Methods We identified 88 patients with MG who took MMF during the 5-year period 20072011 at our MG clinic. We then performed detailed chart reviews and recorded all MG exacerbations and their relationship to MMF and other treatment changes. We also recorded demographic data and disease characteristics including antibody status and Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America status. Results There were 14 patients who had an MG exacerbation during the study period. Of these 13 had discontinued MMF therapy with a median time until exacerbation of 16 weeks after discontinuation 9 patients or marked dose reduction 4 patients of MMF therapy exacerbation in the absence of change in any other component of the immunosuppressive regimen.
Conclusions This retrospective cohort study suggests that discontinuation/marked reduction of MMF therapy may increase the risk of MG exacerbation many fold supporting the hypothesis that MMF plays a role in the maintenance of MG remission/minimal manifestation status. Classification of evidence This study provides Class IV evidence that in patients with MG taking MMF discontinuation or marked reduction of MMF causes MG exacerbation. Neurology 20168615 GLOSSARY AChR 5 acetylcholine receptors MG 5 myasthenia gravis MGFA 5 Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MM 5 minimal manifestations MMF 5 mycophenolate mofetil MuSK 5 muscle-specific kinase PR 5 pharmacologic remission RCT 5 randomized controlled trial UCD 5 University of California Davis. Moderate to severe myasthenia gravis MG caused by autoantibodies against the neuromuscular junction proteins acetylcholine receptors AChR or muscle-specific kinase MuSK is most commonly treated with high-dose corticosteroids followed by dose tapering. To reduce the risk of disease exacerbation during tapering and to limit side effects of long-term steroid treatment many regimens include immunosuppressant medications as steroid-sparing agents.
Mycophenolate mofetil MMF has frequently replaced azathioprine in organ transplantation and in treatment of some autoimmune diseases because of efficacy and favorable safety profile. Several open-label studies and case series have demonstrated the efficacy of MMF as a treatment in MG. However 2 RCTs failed to prove that MMF enhances reduction in prednisone dose. The authors of the trials offered several possible explanations for these findings naming inadequate duration of MMF treatment as the probable factor. Here we present a retrospective cohort analysis of exacerbations in all MMF-treated patients with MG from a single clinic in relation to discontinuation or marked dose reduction of MMF. Our objective is to show the effect MMF withdrawal/dose reduction has on the risk of MG exacerbations. From University of California Davis B.O. D.M.R. D.P.R. and Mercy Neurological Institute K.D. Sacramento CA. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures. Funding information and disclosures deemed relevant by the authors if any are provided at the end of the article. 2016 American Academy of Neurology 1 a 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited. Published Ahead of Print on February 5 2016 as 10.1212/WNL.0000000000002405.
Rocke PhD Karsten Dengel MD David P. Richman MDCorrespondence to Dr. Oskarsson boskarssonucdavis.eduObjective To determine whether discontinuation or marked reduction of mycophenolate mofetil MMF in patients with myasthenia gravis MG causes MG exacerbations.Methods We identified 88 patients with MG who took MMF during the 5-year period 20072011 at our MG clinic. We then performed detailed chart reviews and recorded all MG exacerbations and their relationship to MMF and other treatment changes. We also recorded demographic data and disease characteristics including antibody status and Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America status.Results There were 14 patients who had an MG exacerbation during the study period. Of these 13 had discontinued MMF therapy with a median time until exacerbation of 16 weeks after discontinuation 9 patients or marked dose reduction 4 patients of MMF therapy exacerbation in the absence of change in any other component of the immunosuppressive regimen.
des Class IV evidence that in patients with MG taking MMF discontinuation or marked reduction of MMF causes MG exacerbation. Neurology 20168615. GLOSSARY end. AChR 5 acetylcholine receptors MG 5 myasthenia gravis MGFA 5 Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MM 5 minimal manifestations MMF 5 mycophenolate mofetil MuSK 5 muscle-specific kinase PR 5 pharmacologic remission RCT 5 randomized controlled trial UCD 5 University of California Davis.Moderate to severe myasthenia gravis MG caused by autoantibodies against the neuromuscular junction proteins acetylcholine receptors AChR or muscle-specific kinase MuSK is most commonly treated with high-dose cort. icosteroids followed by dose tapering. To reduce the risk of disease exacerbation during tapering and to limit side effects of long-term steroid treatment many regimens include immunosuppressant medications as steroid-sparing agents.1 One such agent azathioprine has been demonstrated in a randomized controlled trial RCT to permit reduction in prednisone use over time.2 Mycophenolate mofetil MMF has frequently replaced azathioprine in organ transplantation and in treatment of some autoimmune diseases because of efficacy and favorable . safety profile.
However 2 RCTs failed to prove that MMF enhances reduction in prednisone dose.56 The authors of the trials offered several possible explanations for these findings naming inadequate duration of MMF treatment as the probable factor.478 Here we present a retrospective cohort analysis of exacerbations in all MMF-treated patients with MG from a single clinic in relation to discontinuation or marked dose reduction of MMF. Our objective is to show the effect MMF withdrawal/dose reduction has on the risk of MG exacerbations.From University of California Davis B.O. D.M.R. D.P.R. and Mercy Neurological Institute K.D. Sacramento CA. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures. Funding information and disclosures deemed relevant by the authors if any are provided at the end of the article. 2016 American Academy of Neurology 1 2016 American Academy of Neurology.
exacerbation.We searched the University of California Davis UCD clinical database for patients treated during the 5-year period January 1 2007 to December 31 2011 using the terms MG diagnosis code and mycophenolatepharmacy code. We also searched the MG clinic patient list. We identified 133 potential patients. After chart review 88 met our inclusion and exclusion criteria 1 MG diagnosis defined as clinical symptoms of MG along with supporting serologic or electrophysiologic findings. Four patients were not included due to this criterion. 2 Treatment with MMF for at least 1 months duration during at least part of the 5-year study period. Thirty-one patients were not included as they did not take MMF. 3 Stable well-controlled MG defined as Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA pharmacologic remission PR or minimal manifestations MM status. Two patients did not meet this criterion. This is required to allow patients to meet MGFA criteria for MG exacerbation. Because the goal was to study the effect of discontinuing or reducing MMF we excluded patients who also discontinued other MGmedications. Six patients were excluded for this reason. Two patients did not have sufficient datarecorded in the electronic medical records to permit us to determine whether they were taking MMF.
Exacerbations were defined according to MGFA criteria.We compared the risk of disease exacerbation while on stable immunosuppression with MMF to the risk of disease exacerbation after discontinuation/reduction of MMF. We used the Cox proportional hazards model in the counting process formulation using the R program coxph. For each patient we determined 1 or 2 time intervals whose endpoints are defined by entry into the time period January 1 2007 on MMF or starting MMF therapy stopping MMF therapy and by an exacerbation or the end of the study period December 31 2011. Statistical significance used the robust score test with the cluster formulation which is robust to intrapatient correlation. Four of the 88 patients studied were lost to follow-up before the end of the 5- year observation period and only the time during which they were followed was used in the analysis.Standard protocol approvals registrations and patient consents. The study was approved by the UCD institutional review board.RESULTS All 88 patients studied had clinical and serologic 83 AChR Ab1 2 MuSK Ab1 or clinical and electrodiagnostic evidence 2 had decrement on repetitive stimulation and 1 had increased jitter on single fiber EMG of MG with disease onset ranging from age 885 years 39 were female.
Generally the worst MG state occurred before PR or MM wasAbbreviations AChR 5 acetylcholine receptors MG 5 myasthenia gravis MGFA 5 Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MMF 5 mycophenolate mofetil. Age is significantly lower for patients with exacerbation p 5 0.0061. No other differences are statistically significant.2 Neurology 86 March 22 2016 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.achieved prior to the study. Basic demographic data and disease characteristics of the 88 patients can be found in table 1.Frequency of MG exacerbation. Of the 14 patients who experienced exacerbations 13 had recently stopped/ reduced MMF table 2. One of the 88 patients had an exacerbation while on stable MMF dose. The discontinuation/reduction of MMF increased the hazard ratio of MG exacerbation by an estimated 204-fold the coefficient of MMF in the Cox regression was 25.32 with a standard error of 1.05 and a z score of 25.08 p 5 0.0002. Ten of the 13 patients who stopped/reduced MMF and had an exacerbation had been documented to have moderate or severe MG disease MGFA Class III V. These patients had been in remission/minimal manifestation for 972 months median 36 months prior to the discontinuation/reduction of MMF.
For the 4 patients who were unable to afford the costs of MMF this was due to a loss of health care insurance coverage. One patient discontinued MMF due to tinnitus which did not resolve with discontinuation of MMF. For the remaining 4 cases the MMF dose reductions were planned to minimize the risk of long-term immunosuppression. For the 13 patients who underwent an exacerbation of MG following MMF discontinuation/reduction there was a lag time of 6118 weeks median 16 weeks. Four patients in our cohort tapered or stopped MMF without having an exacerbation. One of these patients restarted MMF after 2 months within the average post discontinuation lag. Another developed mild leg weakness but this never recovered and we were unable to attribute this symptom to an MG exacerbation. For the group of 71 patients in which no or little change in MMF was made during the period of observation 1 underwent an exacerbation. She did so after sternal repair surgery.Patients older than 60 years were less likely to stop MMF therapy and also less likely to have an exacerbation a classic possible confounder. When this binary age variable was introduced into the Cox regression it was not significant nor did it reduce the apparent large increase in risk due to stopping MMF therapy.
Nonetheless the evidence that the increase in risk is at least large is good.DISCUSSION This cohort study provides a different type of evidence assessing the efficacy of MMF forT able 2P atie nts w it h exac erb atio n afte r st opp in g M M F Ad d it io nald emog rap hi cd is ease and tr eatm ent char acte ri st ic sS ubje ctno .1 23 45 67 89 1 01 11 21 3A g e atM Gon set y/ sex 4 3 /M3 1 /F2 5 /F2 1 /F3 9 /M3 8 /F6 8 /M5 7 /M5 5 /M5 0 /M3 8 /M5 5 /M1 7 /FM G F AC la ssIV BV VIV BIIA VIV AIII B. I III AV IVB IIBA C hRan ti b odie snm ol /Ln orm al< 0 .4 4 81 1 .42 62 .62 .70 .31 84 36 .83 44 71 0 .67 .0T hym ecto m yY TY TN YY NN NN NY TY YIn it ia lR/M Min d uced b yP /P yP /P E /Cy P /P y/ IVIg P /P EP P /P y/ P E /I V Ig /MM FP /P y/ P E /MM FP y/ M M FU KU KTh /P /I V IgP I V IgIV Ig /MM FM ai nten ance M M F d ose g /d2 22 12 22 22 22 22M ai nten ance P d ose m g /d1 15 2 55 00 1 00 00 01 40D urat io n R /mm b efor e M M F chan g em o2 47 22 46 04 86 03 69 8 11 03 21 23 9La g b etw.
ec to m y. a S ix w ee ks af te r th e la st M M F de cr ea se .Neurology 86 March 22 2016 3 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.reducing exacerbations of MG. We show that withdrawal of MMF results in an increased hazard ratio for MG exacerbations which generally occurred with a lag of several months after discontinuation of MMF. Our data support the hypothesis that MMF plays a role in the maintenance of MG remission/minimal manifestation status because MMF discontinuation/reduction was associated with an MG exacerbation in the absence of a change in any other component of the immunosuppressive regimen. In a recently published series by Hobson-Webb et al.9 maintenance of stable remission was achieved with slow gradual reductions in MMF dosage in a higher proportion 67% than we observed in our case series 23%. The reasons for this could be many including the following 1 The current series captures mostly cases in which the dose had been suddenly discontinued or markedly reduced as opposed to the controlled slow tapers described in the HobsonWebb et al. series and the risk of exacerbation may be greater with a rapid taper or discontinuation.
series and the duration of MMF treatment was generally shorter in our series as compared to theirs our mean 4.1 years vs their 5.9 years for successful tapers and 4.4 years for unsuccessful. 3 A majority of our tapers occurred due to socioeconomic or patient preference rather than recommendations based on expert clinical acumen and it seems plausible that expert clinicians can predict the likelihood of an exacerbation with a greater accuracy than chance. The exacerbations experienced by the 13 patients with MG discontinuing/reducing MMF were all treated early and were mild none requiring hospitalization. One of the possible reasons for the seeming discrepancy of a lack of efficacy in the prior RCTs and our study may be that MMF is better at maintaining MG remission than inducing it but this study does not directly address this question.The present study is limited by its retrospective nature but the series has provided an opportunity to test at least indirectly the efficacy of MMF in remission/ minimal manifestation status maintenance. Conclusions from a retrospective study where the MMF treatment discontinuations were not allocated by formal randomization may have introduced a bias.
Patients may not have reported noncompliance with their prescribed MMF treatment yet not had an exacerbation thereby making us overestimate the effect of MMF in maintaining minimal manifestation status/remission. Incomplete datasets are often a limitation for retrospective case studies this is relativelyunlikely to present a major bias in this study as we were able to capture complete data for the analyzed time period for the vast majority of patients 131 of 133.The relatively long lag between dosage discontinuation/reduction and exacerbation is not surprising. Discontinuation of azathioprine in MG results in a similar lag between discontinuation and relapse.10 A lag between initiation of MMF treatment and the treatment effects also is characteristic of MG.47 Inadequate attention to this lag in biological effects could have played a role in the failure of the RCTs of MMF see above. The data presented here suggest that MMF contributes to the maintenance of remission/ minimal manifestation status in MG as would be desired in a steroid-sparing agent. More definitive conclusions concerning MMF efficacy await a clinical trial designed with consideration of the lag in effect of MMF on MG control in both the initiation of the agent and in its discontinuation. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS.
David Rocke contributed to design statistical analysis interpretation of data drafting and revision of the manuscript. Karsten Dengel contributed to design interpretation of data drafting and revision of the manuscript. David P end. Richman contributed to design interpretation of data drafting and revision of the manuscript. STUDY FUNDING. Supported by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences National Institutes of Health grant UL1 TR 000002. DISCLOSURE. B end. Oskarsson is supported by Novartis NIH UL1 TR 000002 and linked award KL2 TR 000134 NINDS U10 NS077422-01 NINDS 1 U01 NS049640-02 and NIEHS R01 ES016848-01A2 and is a speaker for Grifols. D end. Rocke serves on the following DSMBs Conceptus Inc. 20082012 and Hansen Medical 20012012 has received compensation for travel and honoraria from the American College of Phlebology 2011 and American Statistical Association 2011 and 2012 is an Associate Editor for Journal of the American Statistical Association Theory and Methods 20052011 and Bioinformatics 20052011 is a member of the editorial board for Bioinformatics 2012 BMC Bioinformatics 2005 Journal of Bioinformatics Theory and Applications 2.
and Infectious Diseases R21/R33AI080604 20082014 Department of Energy DE-FG02-07ER64341 20062011 National Institutes of Health National Human Genome Research Institute R01-HG003352 20062011. K end. Dengel reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. D end. Richman receives research funding from the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America 255526 The Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of California and the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Illinois and received travel expenses and an honorarium from Aspreva Pharmaceuticals for an advisory board meeting in 2005 concerning planning for an international clinical trial of mycophenolate mofetil and travel expenses for a 2007 investigators meeting for that trial. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures.Received April 26 2015. Accepted in final form December 7 2015.4 Neurology 86 March 22 2016 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited. Opportunistic infections in myasthenia gravis treated with mycophenolate mofetil.
Termsarasab Drafting/re Dr. Katirji Drafting/revising manuscript for content sup  Disclosure Dr. Termsarasab and Dr. Katirji report Corresponding author at Neurological Institute U cal Center 11100 Euclid Avenue Cleveland OH 44106 844 1000 fax 1 216 844 7624.E-mail address Pichet.Termsarasabuhhospitals.org0165-5728/  see front matter  2012 Elsevier B.V. All doi10.1016/j.jneuroim.2012.04.016a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f oArticle history Received 20 March 2012 Received in revised form 22 April 2012 Accepted 25 April 2012Keywords Cytomegalovirus EpsteinBarr virus Myasthenia gravis Mycophenolate mofetil Opportunistic infectionMycophenolate mofetil MMF is used for immunosuppression in myasthenia gravis MG. Although there are numerous data on associated infection and prophylaxis in transplant patients who are on MMF data in MG remains lacking. We report two elderly seropositive MG patients who developed cytomegalovirus CMV enteritis and EpsteinBarr virus EBV encephalitis while on MMF for 5 months and 1 year respectively. Chronic MMF therapy in MG patients may trigger life-threatening infections including CMV and EBV diseases especially in the elderly.
All rights reserved. 1 end. Introduction. Mycophenolate mofetil MMF has been increasingly used for immunosuppression after transplantation. There have been numerous studies and case reports about MMF-related opportunistic infections and treatment as well as prevention in transplant patients. MMF has also been used for immunosuppression in myasthenia gravis MG. However there has been no clear data regarding opportunistic infection treatment and prophylaxis in the literature so far in myasthenia gravis patients. This article describes two patients with seropositive MG who developed MMF-related opportunistic infection and treatment. 2 end. Report of cases. end. 2.1 end. Patient 1. An 84-year-old man presented with increased fatigue followed by fluctuating flaccid dysarthria severe dysphagia nasal regurgitation and weight loss. Repetitive nerve stimulation was equivocal. Acetylcholine receptor antibodies were elevated at 9.6 nmol/L normalb0.4 nmol/L.vising manuscript for content. ervising.no disclosures. niversity Hospitals Case Medi United States. Tel. 1 216P. Termsarasab.rights reserved.Computed tomography of the chest was unremarkable. Thyroid stimulating hormone was within normal limit.
Symptoms improved rapidly over the next month. He had mild diarrhea which responded to glycopyrrolate. MMF was started and prednisone was slowly tapered. Two months later he was asymptomatic on MMF 2000 mg/day pyridostigmine 60 mg 4 times a day and prednisone 10mg/day.Five months later the patient noted increasing diarrhea mostly at night which was no longer responsive to glycopyrrolate. Diarrhea increased steadily over the next month and did not respond to pyridostigmine taper. Two weeks prior to admission diarrhea became explosive and he had lost about 30 lb. MMFwas stopped. On admission he was afebrile with anasarca worse in the legs. Neurological examination remained normal. Serum albumin was 1.3 g/dl normal 3.45 g/dl. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy and intestinal biopsy showed viral inclusions. Immunostaining was compatible with cytomegalovirus CMV.Hewas started on intravenous ganciclovir total parenteral nutrition and intravenous immunoglobulin. Intravenous gangiclovir was continued for 2 weeks then switched to oral valganciclovir to complete 4-month course of antiviral agent. Diarrhea stopped after 2 weeks and edema gradually resolved. Serum albumin and IgG returned to normal after 2 months.
2.2 end. Patient 2. An 80-year-old dentist was diagnosed with ocular MG at age 70 when he presented with diplopia and ptosis. Serum acetylcholinereceptor antibody was positive. He was treated with pyridostigmine and prednisone but was not compliant. At age 78 he developed progressive dysphagia and dysarthria with weight loss. Azathioprine therapy resulted in abnormal liver function tests. A year later he was started on MMF. All symptoms resolved within two months and he was maintained on MMF 750 mg twice daily pyridostigmine 60 mg 4 times a day and prednisone 10 mg/day.One year after starting MMF he was unable to get up after he fell and brought to the hospital. He also had urinary incontinence and intermittent confusion. His gait was wide-based. The rest of the neurological examination was normal. He was treated with antibiotics for an infected poorly-treated squamous cell carcinoma of the scalp. This had no effect on gait or cognition. MRI showed generalized cerebral atrophy with enlarged ventricles. Normal pressure hydrocephalus was contemplated but a large volume lumbar puncture failed to improve his gait. However cerebrospinal fluid CSF examination showed lymphocytic pleocytosis 139 WBCs 94% lymphocytes with slight elevation of protein 83 mg/dl and normal glucose.
CSF PCR for CMV VaricellaZoster virus and Herpes simplex virus were negative. MMFwas discontinued and hewas started on a 2-week course of intravenous acyclovir and discharged to rehabilitation. He had significant improvement of cognitive function but gait impairment did not completely resolve. Repeated CSF studies 1 month after completing antiviral treatment revealed normalization of protein to 50 mg/dl and EBV DNA PCR was negative. 3 end. Comments end. MMF is a prodrug that is rapidly hydrolyzed to the active drug mycophenolic acid MPA a selective non-competitive and reversible inhibitor of inosinemonophosphate dehydrogenase IMPDH an important enzyme in the de novo pathway of guanine nucleotide synthesis Natsumeda and Carr 1993. MMF selectively impairs B- and T-cell proliferation as these cells are highly dependent on de novo pathway for cell proliferation while other cell types can use salvage pathways. MMFwas approved by Food and Drug Administration FDA for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in patients receiving allogenic renal cardiac or hepatic transplants.
A retrospective study reported on 85 patients treated with MMF as an add-on medication to other immunosuppressive drugs such as corticosteroids cyclosporine A azathioprine or methotrexate Meriggioli et al. 2003b. The dose of MMF ranged from 1 to 3 g/day. The study showed remission or marked clinical improvement in 62 patients 73%. Objective improvement occurred after an average time period of 10.7 weeks. Corticosteroid doses could be reduced bymore than 50% in 23 patients 27%. Of these 85 patients 23 patients 27% experienced minor adverse events mostly gastrointestinal in nature but only 5 patients 6% withdrew from the study. A small randomized double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study recruited 14 patients with suboptimally-controlled myasthenia gravis with corticosteroids or cyclosporine Meriggioli et al. 2003a. Patients in MMF group improved by an average of 2.86 quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG score points compared to 0.29 point for the placebo group. Among these 14 patientsfive patients hadminor adverse effects including diarrhea insomnia and urinary tract infections but none withdrew from the study. More recently two large scale prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled multicenter trials were published Muscle Study Group 2008 Sanders et al. 2008.
This might be due to unexpected benefit of prednisone at the dosage used and/or short duration of the studywhich was 12 weeks Muscle Study Group 2008. Minor gastrointestinal symptoms and insomnia were slightly more prevalent in the MMF patients compared to the placebo group. Sanders et al. assessed the efficacy safety and tolerability of MMF in 176 patients with MG Sanders et al. 2008. This study also showed that initiation of MMF treatment was not superior to placebo in maintaining myasthenia gravis control during 36 weeks of steroid tapering. This was also limited by short duration of the study and unexpected effectiveness of low dose corticosteroid. Adverse effects such as headache fatigue and nasopharyngitis was noted in 80% of the MMF treated patients and 84% of placebo. A recent retrospective studies in 102 acetylcholine receptor AChR-antibody-positive patients showed that MMF began to improve MG symptoms after 6 months both with prednisone and as monotherapy Hehir et al. 2010.
This is estimated at approximately 2% of renal and cardiac patients and in 5% of hepatic patients. In cardiac patients the overall incidence of opportunistic infections was approximately 10% higher in patients treated with MMF than in those receiving azathioprine. The infectious complication most frequently associated with MMF is CMV disease. CMV is a member of the herpes virus family which includes the herpes simplex viruses varicellazoster virus and EpsteinBarr virus. CMV is found throughout the world in all geographic and socioeconomic groups. Between 50 and 80% of adults in United States have positive CMV antibody by the age of 40. For the vast majority of people CMV infection is not a serious problem. However CMV infection is important to certain highrisk groups including the unborn baby during pregnancy the immunocompromised patients such as those with organ and bone marrow transplants human immunodeficiency virus HIV infection renal failure undergoing dialysis cancer or receiving immunosuppressive drugs. In these patients pneumonia retinitis and gastrointestinal diseases are the common manifestations.
The risk is highest in seronegative patients who receive a transplant from a CMV-seropositive donor. Disease manifestations range from a mild viral syndrome to life-threatening multiorgan involvement including pneumonia hepatitis retinitis and gastrointestinal diseases. Generally prophylaxis for CMV with valacyclovir and ganciclovir is given in renal transplant patients for at least 3 months after transplant if donor and recipient IgG antibody is negative and longer if either is positive. Other infections include BK virus or EBV disease Ritter and Pirofski 2009 as described in our patient. EBV infection is ubiquitous leading to lifelong infection in over 90% of the adult population. The virus resides in the pharynx and B cells of the human host. In immunocompetent individuals it is controlled by virus-specific CD8 major histocompatibility complex MHC class I restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes. In the immunocompromised patients impairment of the cytotoxic T-cell response is responsible for the failing control of EBV infection. EBV-driven B-cell proliferation is also responsible for subsequent lymphoproliferative disease in transplant and immunosuppressed patients.Life threatening infections in MG patients treated with MMF have been rarely reported.
A case of West Nile disease was reported in one patient among 85 patients treated with MMF for MG in an open label study Meriggioli et al. 2003b. No serious infections were reported in two studies which included 7 and 41 patientstreated for 3 and 5 months respectively Meriggioli et al. 2003a Muscle Study Group 2008. Among 88 patients treated for 9 months serious infection was found in 7 patients 8% in MMF group MMF plus prednisone as compared to 3 patients 3.4% in placebo group prednisone only Sanders et al. 2008. This included pneumonia bronchitis clostridial infection and hemorrhagic fever. No serious infection was reported from a recent study of 102 patients treated with MMF for at least 3 months Hehir et al. 2010. It is possible that the short periods of follow up for all of these studies may have contributed to the low incidence of serious infections in patients with MG treated with MMF. Our patients developed infections 5 months and 1 year after initiation of MMF.Data from renal transplant patients revealed that rate of CMV disease is dose-dependent. Patients who received high dose of MMF at 3 g/day with prednisone and cyclosporine had a higher incidence of CMV disease than those on lower dose of MMF at 2 g/day with the same immunosuppressive agents Moreso et al. 1998.
Generally the oral dose used in renal transplant patients is 1 g twice daily 2 g/day and a dose more than 2 g/day is not recommended. However in cardiac or hepatic transplant patients the usual oral dose is 1.5 g twice daily which is slightly higher.Both of our patients are in older age group 84 and 80 years old respectively. Previous studies of MMF use in MG patients rarely included patients with age above 80. Ages of the patients in both studies by Meriggioli et al. and Sanders et al. were in the range between 18 and 80 years old Meriggioli et al. 2003a Sanders et al. 2008. Mean age of the patients treated with MMF in the latter study was 49.0 years old. Muscle Study Group recruited patients with the age of 18 and above. However upper limit of the age was not mentioned in published data by this group Muscle Study Group 2008. Another study included patients between the age of 12 and 86 but there was no serious opportunistic infection reported Meriggioli et al. 2003b. In these studies CMV or EBV infections might be underreported because the elderly especially patients above the age of 80 were rarely included.
However supportive evidence from transplant patients hasbeen lacking as it is uncommon for individuals older than 80 years old to be candidates for transplantation.Given that MMF could trigger some viral infections particularly in elderly patients with MG we suggest taking precautions and monitor for these infections particularly in elderly MG patients and also weighing the risk of potentially life threatening infection versus the beneficial effect of MMF immunosuppression. It is not known also whether testing for CMV serology should be done on all MG patients prior to starting MMF. Since prophylactic regimen for CMV infection has been utilized in transplant patients it is not clear also whether the use of prophylactic antiviral agents in MG patients particularly the elderly ones or those with positive CMV serology treated with MMF is beneficial. Leflunomide treatment in corticosteroid-dependent myasthenia gravis an open-label pilot study. Leflunomide is an effective drug used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Here we report the findings of an open-label pilot study which found that leflunomide is also an effective treatment for myasthenia gravis MG. This study recruited 15 corticosteroid-dependent MG patients.
The quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG scores and MG activities of daily living MG-ADL profiles were measured in these MG patients. After 6 months of treatment 9 of the 15 patients enrolled in this study showed improvements in both QMG and MG-ADL. The mean QMG scores 13.4 to 8.5 and MG-ADL profiles 5.8 to 2.8 were significantly decreased P  0.01 0.006 respectively. Furthermore we found that the mean corticosteroid doses were reduced after treatment with leflunomide 24.3 to 12.3 mg per day. Leflunomide is a well-tolerated and efficacious treatment for corticosteroid-dependent MG which may also enable lower doses of corticosteroids to be administered. treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Here we report the findings of an open-label pilot study which found that leflunomide is also an effective treatment for myasthenia gravis MG. This study recruited 15 corticosteroid-dependent MG patients. For 6 months leflunomide 20 mg was given to these patients daily along with prednisone. The quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG scores and MG activities of daily living MG-ADL profiles were measured in these MG patients. After 6 months of treatment 9 of the 15 patients enrolled in this study showed improvements in both QMG and MG-ADL.
Furthermore we found that the mean corticosteroid doses were reduced after treatment with leflunomide 24.3 to 12.3 mg per day. Leflunomide is a well-tolerated and efficacious treatment for corticosteroid-dependent MG which may also enable lower doses of corticosteroids to be administered.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Leflunomide Corticosteroid-dependent QMG ADL. Introduction. Corticosteroid-dependent myasthenia gravis patients are defined as those taking corticosteroids for a relatively long time and requiring additional immunosuppressants for clinical improvement or to reduce corticosteroid side effects 15. Corticosteroids combined with other immunosuppressants are the recommended treatment for these patients with azathioprine and cyclosporine being the typical immunosuppressant choices 68. These immunosuppressive drugs result in obvious improvements in corticosteroid-dependent MG patients with azathioprine recommended as the first-line steroid-sparing drug 9. The steroid-sparing effects of these immunosuppressants allow dose reduction of corticosteroids in MG patients which reduces corticosteroid side effects. However all of these drugs carry serious side effects and some patients do not tolerate or respond adequately to them.
Corticosteroid-dependent MG patients are good test subjects to confirm the efficacy of these drugs in MG treatment 14 with a number of studies recommending other drugs for their immunosuppressant MG therapy 8 10.Leflunomide licensed for the treatment of RA is an immunosuppressive agent that blocks pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis 11. An active metabolite of leflunomide A771726 teriflunomide has been investigated as an MS treatment with phase II and III clinical trials already completed 1214.Previous research has shown that experimentally induced myasthenia gravis was prevented by leflunomide Weibin Liu ranliuz163.com1 Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital ofSun Yat-sen University 58 Zhongshan 2nd Rd Yuexiu Guangzhou Guangdong Peoples Republic of Chinain rats 15. In our clinic we also observed that leflunomide could be an effective substitute for azathioprine in myasthenia patients that had poor tolerance to azathioprine. To investigate this we designed a pilot study that evaluated the short-term efficacy and safety of leflunomide in corticosteroid-dependent MG patients. Methods end. end. MG patients.
All subjects had undergone thymectomy. The duration of MG symptoms experienced by the patients varied from 6 to 254 months. Acetylcholine receptor antibodies AChR-Ab were tested with 14 of the 15 patients testing positive serum levels ranged from 0.2 to 48.2 nmol/L. Patients with LambertEaton myasthenic syndrome were excluded. All patients were fully informed of the clinical trial aims and objectives before enrollment. Informed consent compliance with the modified Helsinki Declaration was obtained for each subject and all patients were fully informed of the risks of participation in the trial. Corticosteroid-dependent myasthenia classification. Two different sets of selection criteria were used to define corticosteroid-dependent MG patients. Subjects that fulfilled the criteria defined by Rowin et al. 1 formed the first group. Patients in group 1 patients 111 had been treated with doses of prednisone greater than 25 mg every 48 h for over 6 months. These patients had persistent symptoms of fatigue and weakness or an inability to tolerate a reduction in their corticosteroid treatment dose. The high doses of corticosteroids taken by these patients resulted in many side effects. These patients had been treated with prednisone prednisolone and dexamethasone.
Patient seven was negative for AChR antibodies. However her thymus histology was thymus hyperplasia so this patient probably can be excluded as being MUSK-antibody positive 10. Low-affinity antibodies to AChR are present in the blood of some seronegative MG patients but can be identified using cell-based methods that are not routinely used in clinical diagnosis 17 18.A second group of patients were enrolled that had been treated similarly to group 1 with corticosteroids but for less than 6 months. These patients did not meet the criteria set for group 1 but gradual reduction of the corticosteroid doses used to treat them did result in serious myasthenia.Treatment with intravenous gamma globulin IVIg or plasma exchange PE was used to rescue patients from myasthenic crisis. Before enrollment to the study their QMG scores were more than ten despite the use of corticosteroids. Titers of AChR-Ab were higher in group 2 mean 32.7 nmol/L compared with group 1. These four patients were also defined as corticosteroid-dependent and formed group 2 patients 1215.Seven patients had been treated with IVIg or PE to control their symptoms. IVIg or PE treatment had to be stopped for a minimum of 4 weeks prior to enrollment in the study. Treatment.
The recommended established immunosuppressant treatments for MG 8 16 were also described to study participants. Prednisone and leflunomide were given to corticosteroid-dependent MG patients in both groups at the time of enrollment. Prednisone was administered at the dose previously prescribed. No protocol was in place for tapering prednisone doses during the course of the study but the doses were altered at the discretion of the treating neurologist. Leflunomide was administered orally at 20 mg per day as recommended by the label for 6 months. Assessments at the clinic were performed once a month for the first 2 months and every 2 months for the remainder of the study. The pharmacological effects and potential side effects of leflunomide were fully described to the study participants. Patients were advised to report any new symptoms or previously reported side effects as soon as possible. Assessment of efficacy. QMG and MG-ADL scores were used to assess the efficacy of leflunomide and had been validated for the assessment of MG symptoms 19. The QMG and MG-ADL were performed at baseline and month 1 2 4 and 6. Patients were allowed to use the cholinesterase inhibitor pyridostigmine during this study. QMG scores were recorded at least 4 h after administration of this drug.
A reduction in the MGADL questionnaire score was used as another measure of efficacy. The study was not designed to test the steroidsparing effects of leflunomide so the reduction of prednisone doses of these patients was not used as a main measure of efficacy. However the prednisone doses at the beginning and end of this study were compared for eachpatient. Physical and laboratory safety assessments were obtained from patients on each visit and adverse reactions were also monitored. Statistical analysis. The QMG scores ADL scores and prednisone doses at baseline and the end point 6 months later were compared. The baseline and end point values of each patient were paired. Wilcoxon signed-rank analysis was used to compare the quantitative data. The groups were considered significantly different if P 0.05 two-tailed. SPSS Vision 18.0 was used for all statistical analysis. Results end. end. Characteristics of the cohort. Table 1 lists the individual data recorded for patients at the beginning of the study. The MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America score for the two groups ranged from I to IVa. All but three patients hadQMG scores over ten. These three patients had been treated with corticosteroids for over a year.
12.3. end. Treatment with leflunomide. After 6 months of treatment with leflunomide and prednisone 12 patients 80 % had an improved QMG score eight from group 1 all from group 2 Table 2. Of these patients 11 significantly improved their QMG score by more than three points seven from group 1 all from group 2. The ADL scores of ten patients were also improved six from group 1 all from group 2. Nine patients 60 % improved both their QMG improved greater than three points and ADL scores. The mean changes in QMG and ADL scores were from 13.4 to 8.5 and 5.8 to 2.8 respectively. The mean QMG and ADL scores gradually reduced during the monitoring period Fig. 1 end. Wilcoxon signedrank analysis revealed significant improvements in QMG and ADL scores at 6 months post-leflunomide treatment compared with before P  0.01 and 0.006 respectively.As mentioned above tapering the prednisone doses was not designed to be a main outcome of the study. However at the end of this study 12 patients 80 % had their prednisone dose reduced at the discretion of the treating neurologist ten from group 1 two from group 2 Table 2. The average changes in prednisone dose were from 24.3 to 12.3 mg per day.
No myasthenic crisis was observed in patients following reductions in prednisone doses.No major side effects were observed in any of the subjects but three patients did report minor side effects. Patient five had diarrhea and transient thrombocytopenia. The 20 mg dose of leflunomide was not tolerated well by patient seven resulting in gastric disturbances thinning hair and a rash. Following the leflunomide labeling and RA clinical trial recommendations 21 the dose of leflunomide was reduced to 10 mg per day after the first month follow-up which stopped the side effects in this patient. Patient nine also had gastric disturbances. All of these side effects have been reported in previous clinical trials of leflunomide or teriflunomide and are transient 22 24. During the assessments both liver and kidney functions of the patients tested as normal. Discussion and conclusion. The findings of this pilot study indicate that leflunomide in combination with prednisone appeared to be efficacious in the treatment of corticosteroid-dependent MG. 11 of 15 73 % patients significantly improved their QMG score by more than three points seven from group 1 all from group 2 which represents a significant improvement for the study subjects 20. The mean QMG scores decreased by more than three points.
Leflunomide is tolerated well by RA patients and the discovery of only mild side effects in this study indicates similar levels of tolerability by MG patients. However the 6-month study duration may not be long enough to see the development of major side effects of leflunomide in MG patients.Different kinds of immunosuppressants such as cytostatic drugs azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil the alkylating agent cyclophosphamide and calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine A CyA and tacrolimus are currently used to treat MG 8. The main mechanism of action of leflunomide is inhibition of dihydroorotase dehydrogenase which is the key enzyme in pyrimidine synthesis 11.Therefore leflunomide can interfere with T cell mitosis. The pharmacological actions and efficacy of leflunomide in RA patients make it a reasonable choice of immunosuppressant for the treatment ofMG patients. The use of leflunomide also offers another mechanism through the inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis which interferes with lymphocyte proliferation in MG patients.Several shortcomings should be considered in the interpretation of our leflunomide efficacy results. First this pilot study compared the clinical situation of patients only before and after leflunomide treatment. The patients were their own control.
This indicates that patients had different states of immunomodulation at the time of study enrollment. Furthermore patients had been previously treated with different corticosteroids. These shortcomings mean that we could not rule out that patient improvements were due to the more regular and standard usage of prednisone. Several studies also have suggested that prednisone doses used in clinicalpractice may be higher than necessary and raise questions about current corticosteroid protocols and doses 2527.In conclusion the findings of this study demonstrate that leflunomide may be an efficacious and safe immunosuppressant drug for the treatment of MG. Furthermore in line with previous research 1 2 leflunomide may facilitate reduction or withdrawal of corticosteroids and should be considered as an alternative therapy in the treatment of MG. However as an open pilot study with limited patient numbers the efficacy of leflunomide in the treatment of MG should be treated with discretion.
by the appropriate ethics committees in the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University and complied with the standards set by the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki and its later amendments. All participants gave informed consent prior to enrollment in the study. Clinical trials for myasthenia gravis a historical perspective. Symposia dedicated to myasthenia gravis and related disorders date back to 1947 and serve as markers of the progress for the field. We provide a brief historical review of therapy development through the lens of the publications that arose from the close to quinquennial meetings that have been supported nearly since their inception by the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America and the New York Academy of Sciences. One can appreciate great advances false starts and dead ends that are found in all fields of medicine. We tally up the score card for MG and find points scored but the win is not yet close. ANNALS OF THE NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES. Issue Myasthenia Gravis and Related Disorders COMMENTARYClinical trials for myasthenia gravis a historical perspective. Henry J end. Kaminski Eman Alnosair and Rami M. Algahtani. Department of Neurology GW-Medical Faculty Associates George Washington University Washington DCAddress for correspondence Henry J.
HKaminskimfa.gwu.eduSymposia dedicated to myasthenia gravis and related disorders date back to 1947 and serve as markers of the progress for the field. We provide a brief historical review of therapy development through the lens of the publications that arose from the close to quinquennial meetings that have been supported nearly since their inception by the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America and the New York Academy of Sciences. One can appreciate great advances false starts and dead ends that are found in all fields of medicine. We tally up the score card for MG and find points scored but the win is not yet close.Keywords myasthenia gravis clinical trials mycophenolate tacrolimus prednisone . end. end. The time again seems right to add up the score re-evaluate the past and plot the future said Henry R. Viets in the proceedings of the 2nd International Symposium dedicated to myasthenia gravis MG and published in 1961.1 These conferences and their associated publications which have occurred approximately every 5 years provide a snapshot for the development of the science and clinical knowledge of MG.
published in the American Journal of Medicine.3 The therapeutics under study were neostigmine which was well established and the new agent pyridostigmine. As is the case today investigators wondered how some patients could tolerate doses of 1500 mg/day while others did poorly with 30 or even15 mg/day. Although this is no longer a burning subject of investigation it remains unanswered and a frustration for patients. In the forward to the compendium of papers Gammon commented on the controversy of the value of thymectomy Sceptics like Grob are still unwilling to concede that thymectomy is any more than a continuing experiment.4 We only recently were fortunate to have a clear confirmation of efficacy established with the completion of MGTX trial which found benefits of thymus removal for patients with acetylcholine receptor antibodypositive MG.5 The organization and performance of the MGTX trial derived great. assistance from the MG symposia with provision of a venue for international collaboration and investigator meetings.67In 1959 the second symposium dedicated to MG was held in Los Angeles with support from the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness the American Academy of Neurology and the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of New York.
Discussions specific to therapy were limited to cholinesterase inhibitors and thymectomy.doi 10.1111/nyas.13545 1Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. xxxx 2018 16 C 2018 New York Academy of Sciences.The 3rd International Symposium on Myasthenia Gravis was the first developed with the assistance of the New York Academy of Sciences NYAS with a special issue of Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences published in 1966.8 We used the fully electronically available archives of Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. and reviewed each volume dedicated to the MG international symposia.818 All articles mentioning a therapeutic were identified and review articles were eliminated. We then assessed whether each study was a case series or a controlled trial. No determinations of specific trial limitations such as a lack of a priori power assessment or formal outcome assessments were made. From this view of the past we can make an assessment of where we have been. Figure 1 shows a graph of the number of clinical trial studies identified within each issue of Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci. and Table 1 indicates the year of the conference when a therapeutic was first mentioned. The remainder of this review provides a summary of the therapeutic reports. In general we do not provide specific comments.
The average remission length was 7 months with the longest being more than 3 years. A definition of remission was not provided but it appears to mean a resolution of the crisis situation. No significant adverse effects were attributed to ACTH but the majority of treatments led to initial deterioration in strength before improvement. Osserman and Glaser in their summation of the special issue20 commented that Despite the negative result obtained in the recent national co-operative study of ACTH for ocular myasthenia . end. end. some interest . end. end. is being focused anew on the use of steroid hormones. We are fortunate that it was.In the 1971 publication9 the application of corticosteroids and ACTH to MG expanded with a report of the experience from Mount Sinai and Maimonides Hospitals in New York.21 In the brief interval since the last symposium ACTH had come to be regarded as a boon to our severely ill patients. The authors appreciated the known effects of corticosteroids inducing lysis of lymphocytes but they were restrained in their con. sideration that MG may have an autoimmune etiology.
A retrospective comparative analysis of thymic irradiation to medical therapy2 Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. xxxx 2018 16 C 2018 New York Academy of Sciences.alone and thymic resection applied to a highly heterogeneous population was provided by Shulz and Schwab23 and concluded that irradiation is superior to medical therapy and equal to surgical management.The clinical portions of the 1976 publication10 largely focused on treatment response to corticotropin or corticosteroids which despite controversy on exact treatment regimens high- or low-dose ACTH or every other day and appreciation of initial exa. cerbation were coming into common use but reports were all retrospective analyses2426 save one. Howard et al. described an interesting 13-subject double-blind study of alternate-day prednisone.27 What was interesting This was the first randomized blinded study reported in Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. for MG and the unexpected result of three placebo patients improving and three of six in the prednisone arm not improving proved to be a harbinger of the difficulties of performing controlled trials for MG.The golden age of therapy development for MG as documented by Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end.
Olarte and colleagues stated it would take a controlled trial to determine when the use plasmapheresis actu-ally shortens the duration of myasthenic crisis.35 No such trial was ever developed and it would now be considered unethical to perform given the strong clinical impression of the effectiveness of plasma exchange.38 The authors also commented on the variable response rate of exchange and the lack of correlation of response with antibody titer questions that remain perplexing. Engel and colleagues described their experience with radiation administered to the spleen mediastinum and whole body for generalized MG patients using the logic that lymphocytes are likely pathogenic in MG and highly susceptible to elimination by radiotherapy.28 In addition Pirofsky described the assessment of 10 patients provided serum produced in goats that had been administered using purified human thymocytes.30 The patients had severe weakness poorly responsive to anticholinesterase medicati. ons and some had received corticosteroids. Adverse effects were minimal and eight patients had a good therapeutic response.
s immunoglobulin treatment43 the first time the therapy was discussed in Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. In 1993 Tindall et al. reported positive results in a randomized controlled study using cyclosporine for treatment-resistant MG.44 Another group report found a 70% relapse exacerbation rate as defined by a greater clinical grade from baseline among 23 azathioprine-treated patients.45 In the 1998 publication14 there was only one report of a therapeutic evaluation. Gajdos et al. summarized their clinical trial comparing plasma exchange to two dosing regimens of intravenous immunoglobulin.43 The 2003 publication15 included a description of mycophenolate use in a randomized placebocontrolled trial of 11 subjects.46 The small investigation had a suggestion of efficacy.The 2008 publication16 documented a significant uptick in therapeutic studies with reports of intravenous immunoglobulin4748 and tacrolimus493Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. xxxx 2018 16 C 2018 New York Academy of Sciences.and summaries of two randomized trials of mycophenolate.50 An open-label investigation of 11 subjects treated with etanercept provided a suggestion of efficacy51 while a phase II trial of EN101 an antisense oligonucleotide to an isoform of cholinesterase mRNA showed safety and efficacy.
Tacrolimus use was investigated in a retrospective evaluation49 which was supportive for use in treatment-resistant patients and as adjunct care after thymectomy. In our opinion the trials of mycophenolate mark a turning point for clinical trials for MG. These were phase III trials with a priori power analysis performed to assess sample size and they required international cooperation. Although recruitment speed was not as expected by the trial organizers the ultimate goals were met. A great deal was learned from the investigations in regard to recruitment expectations outcome measure performance and response to therapy.505253 They were humbling in our expectations that a 20-mg prednisone treatment arm would be effective and emphasized the need to base the time for efficacy on the biological activity of the agent.Another lull in therapeutic evaluations occurred in 2012. This two-issue publication1718 reported onthe development of trials for prednisone in ocular myasthenia54 and for methotrexate in treatmentresistant patients.55 A randomized trial comparing IVIG and plasma exchange was also described as supporting similar levels of response.56From our review several observations can be made regarding the presentation of therapeutic reports in Ann. N.Y end. Acad end.
These developments are the mark of a mature scientific community and mimic most fields of medicine.The 13th International Conference on Myasthenia Gravis and Related Disorders held at the New York Academy of Sciences in New York New York on May 1517 2017 featured reports on the completed trials of thymectomy and eculizumab. Assessments of acetylcholine receptor mimetic peptides in a phase I trial and the soon-to-be-completed phase II trial of rituximab were discussed. The MGTX trial results were reviewed in detail. The meeting was held4 Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. xxxx 2018 16 C 2018 New York Academy of Sciences.in the context of an explosion of clinical trials being performed for MG around the globe Fig. 2 as well as great interest in preclinical evaluations for MG. With this review we can add up the score card and although the team has not beaten MG there are goals being scored. Competing interests. The authors declare no competing interests. Long-term efficacy and side effects of low-dose tacrolimus for the treatment of Myasthenia Gravis. The study evaluated the efficacy of low-dose tacrolimus for treating Myasthenia Gravis MG. Data were collected from 97 patients treated with low-dose tacrolimus from February 2011 to April 2015.
The myasthenia gravis-specific activities of daily living scale was used to assess MG symptoms and their effects on patients daily activities. All side effects and adverse reactions were thoroughly documented. At the end of follow-up 6 patients were in complete stable remission 17 patients were in pharmacological remission 26 patients were in minimal manifestation status 32 patients were improved 2 patients were unchanged 11 patients had worsening symptoms and 3 patients died. Side effects were reported and/or observed in 24 patients of which 7 patients experienced elevated blood glucose 2 patients developed neoplasms 3 patients developed gastrointestinal symptoms 3 showed mild increases in aminotransferases 3 patients suffered from bone marrow suppression 2 patients suffered from skin rashes and erythema and 1 patient required discontinuation of therapy. Transient renal insufficiency was also observed in 1 patient and 3 other patients had minor miscellaneous side effects. This study adds some knowledge on the efficacy and side effects of low-dose tacrolimus in the treatment of MG. Tacrolimus immunotherapy is a valid option for the management of MG and can be gradually reduced in dose once symptoms are improved until complete withdrawal is achieved.
Data were collected from 97 patients treated with low-dose tacrolimus from February 2011 to April 2015. Metabolic analysis was performed to determine more accurate tacrolimus dosing and patients were followed-up within clinic every 6 months for up to 4 years. The myasthenia gravis-specific activities of daily living scale was used to assess MG symptoms and their effects on patients daily activities. All side effects and adverse reactions were thoroughly documented. At the end of follow-up 6 patients were in complete stable remission 17 patients were in pharmacological remission 26 patients were in minimal manifestation status 32 patients were improved 2 patients were unchanged 11 patients had worsening symptoms and 3 patients died. Side effects were reported and/or observed in 24 patients of which 7 patients experienced elevated blood glucose 2 patients developed neoplasms 3 patients developed gastrointestinal symptoms 3 showed mild increases in aminotransferases 3 patients suffered from bone marrow suppression 2 patients suffered from skin rashes and erythema and 1 patient required discontinuation of therapy. Transient renal insufficiency was also observed in 1 patient and 3 other patients had minor miscellaneous side effects.
Tacrolimus immunotherapy is a valid option for themanagement of MG and can be gradually reduced in dose once symptoms are improved until complete withdrawal is achieved.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Tacrolimus Prognosis CYP3A5 Randomized controlled trial Neurology. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an acquired chronic autoimmune disease characterized by antibody-mediated skeletal muscle weakness caused by autoantibodies against acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junctions 120. Although there are a number of available therapies for the management of MG immune regulation with the use of prednisolone and azathioprine remains the first-line treatment. However these drugs have shown poor efficacy and safety with significant longterm side effects 1 3.Tacrolimus a T-cell immunosuppressive that was originally used as an antirejection drug in organ transplantation has widely been used in the treatment of MG 1. Tacrolimus inhibits calcineurin activity eventually leading to the inhibition of T-lymphocyte signal transduction and interleukin-2 transcription resulting in T-cell suppression subsequent impairment of cytotoxic T cells and indirect suppression of B cells 4.
We present a retrospective follow-up study on the safety and side effect of MG patients undergoing treatment with lowdose tacrolimus. Xusheng Huang lewish301sina.com 1 Department of Neurology Chinese PLA General Hospital No.28 Fuxing Road Haidian District Beijing 100853 China 2 Department of Neurology The 309th Hospital of ChinesePLA Beijing 100091 China. Methods end. end. Patient selection. Data were collected from patients treated at our institution using low-dose tacrolimus from February 2011 to April 2015. Diagnosis of MG was based on clinical history of fluctuating and fatigable weakness neurological examination positive response to acetylcholinesterase therapy electrophysiological examinations including repetitive nerve stimulation test and/or single fiber electromyography 5. In selected cases diagnosis of MG was confirmed by assessing serum AChR-Ab titers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ELISA.Patients of at least 18 years of age who were receiving low-dose tacrolimus and had a previously poor response to or refused treatment with steroids or other immunosuppressive including oral prednisone azathioprine cyclosporine A and cyclophosphamide were considered for inclusion as described by Drachman et al. 20 end.
All participating patients provided informed consent and all aspects of this study were approved by the ethics committee and institutional review board of our institution. Tacrolimus treatment. All patients received the same dosing schedule wherein tacrolimus was started at 1 mg/day given 1 h before or 2 h after eating with a subsequent increase by 1 mg every day for 5 days until a peak dose of 3 mg/day was reached. Plasma concentrations were assessed after 1 month of treatment and dosing was adjusted to 26 mg/day to prevent over dosage. After 1 year of tacrolimus administration pyridostigmine doses were gradually reduced beginning at night until reaching 120180 mg/d. Then tacrolimus dose was gradually reduced by 0.5 mg every 24 weeks. After the total dose was reduced to 0.51 mg long-term maintenance therapy was suggested. Metabolic-genetic analysis. As tacrolimus is primarily metabolized by CYP3A5 single-nucleotide polymorphisms may affect a patients response to treatment. Wild-type CYP3A51/1 and heterozygote CYP3A51/3 have been associated with fast metabolism of tacrolimus while mutant homozygote CYP3A53/3 has been associated with slower metabolism.
Follow-up. Patients were followed-up with in clinic every 6 months for 4 years mean follow-up period 38.8  16.2 m. The myasthenia gravis-specific activities of daily living scale MG-ADL was used to assess MG symptoms and their effects on patients daily activities 2. Therapeutic responses were assessed according to Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Americas Post-Intervention Status Classification and graded as either complete stable remission CSR no symptoms or signs of MG for at least 1 year without any pharmacological therapy pharmacological remission PR the same as CSR except for the use of some forms of medical therapy minimal manifestation MM no functional limitation from MG only some muscle weakness on examination and or improved a substantial decrease i. n pretreatment clinical manifestations or a sustained substantial decrease in MG medications 6. In addition all side effects and adverse reactions were thoroughly documented. Statistical analysis. All statistical analyses were performed with SPSS v17.0 SPSS Inc. Chicago IL USA. Continuous data are expressed as mean  standard deviation SD. Single factor analysis of variance ANOVA was used to compare several groups of quantitative data and a repeatedmeasures ANOVA test was used to compare different groups.
Results end. end. Patient characteristics. A total of 97 MG patients were selected for inclusion of which 58 59.8% were female and 39 40.2% were male Table 1. The mean age at symptom onset age was 51.5  16.4 years and ranged from 783 years of age. The time from onset to the beginning of treatment with tacrolimus ranged from 1 to 264 months. Of these patients 1 was classified as Osserman Class I 10 as Class IIA 59 as Class IIB 10 as Class III and 17 as Class IV. Forty-five 46.4% of these patients had a history of thymectomy Table 2. Tacrolimus treatment. Sixty-three patients underwent treatment through the end of the follow-up period twenty-seven patients ceased treatment prior the end of the follow-up period and seven cases were lost to follow-up. Of the 27 patients who ceased treatment 8 withdrew before the first 6 month follow-up. Of these 8 patients 1 patient died after ceasing treatment and suffering an MG crisis 1 died after a myocardial infarction and 6 cases withdrew due to adverse effects. Four cases withdrew between 6 and 12 month follow-up visits of which 1 patient died after ceasing treatment and suffering an MG crisis 1 patient withdrew due to adverse effects and 2 patients withdrew due to inefficacy.
Additional two cases withdrew during the between the 24 and 36 month follow-up period after achieving complete stable remission. Metabolic-genetic analysis. A total of 39 patients were screened for the CYP3A53 genotype of which 1 2.56% was found to possess wildtype CYP3A51/1 18 46.1% had heterozygote CYP3A51/3 and 20 51.2% had mutant homozygote CYP3A53/3. Patients with wild-type and heterozygote and thus fast metabolism received tacrolimus doses of 2.60  0.99 2.36  1.17 1.91  1.45 and 3.00  1.00 mg respectively for the first year through fourth year. Patients with the mutant homozygote and thus slow metabolism received 2.44  0.89 1.90  1.29 1.33  1.14 and 2.50  0.71 mg respectively for the first year through fourth year. Since only 5 patients 3 with fast metabolism and 2 with slow metabolism who underwent metabolic analysis completed the full 4 year followup we compared the dose of tacrolimus of between the slow n  15 and fast metabolic groups n  14 using a 2 year follow-up period and no statistically significant difference was found Fig. 1. end. Follow-up.
MG-ADL scores demonstrated statistically significant decreases compared with baseline at 6 month and then yearly follow-upFollow-up period months Non-thymectomy group Thymectomy group0 8.00  3.08 6.67  4.30periods Table 3. No statistically significant difference in MG-ADL scores between patients with n  22 and without n  73 history of thymoma was observed Fig. 2.Side effects and adverse reactionsSide effects were reported and/or observed in 24 patients. Seven patients experienced elevated blood glucose requiring 1 patient to withdraw. Two patients developed neoplasms of which one developed suprarenal epithelioma and another developed blind small cell cancer. Gastrointestinal symptoms were reported by three patients and all reported improvement following symptomatic treatment. Mild increases in aminotransferases were observed in three patients and tacrolimus therapy was continued after liverprotective therapies. Three patients suffered from bone marrow suppression of which 1 patient required discontinuation of tacrolimus due to serious leucopenia and 2 patients developed mild anemia. Two patients suffered from skin rashes and erythema and 1 patient required discontinuation of therapy.
In addition 1 patient suffered from tooth mobility another patient from muscle soreness and another required treatment discontinuation for chronic headache. Discussion. Tacrolimus is a powerful immunosuppressant that has shown great efficacy as an antirejection drug for organ transplantation. In 2002 Evoli and colleagues first reported the successful use of tacrolimus in MG patients with insignificant hepatotoxicity 7. Today azathioprine as monotherapy or with corticosteroids is the drug of choice for immunosuppression in patients with MG. Along with methotrexate cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil tacrolimus serves as the second line drug for immunotherapy in MG 3 8 9. However the evidence for different immunotherapy treatments in MG is limited. Because of the rarity of the disease there is a lack of welldesigned clinical trials and most clinical decision making is based on retrospective studies. The use of tacrolimus in relation to other immunosuppressants seems to be dependent on individual neurologists experiences and varies among institutions. 1.In 2005 Nagane et al. treated 18 MG patients with low-dose tacrolimus and concluded that low-dose tacrolimus is both safe and effective for the treatment of new onset MG 1.
In a follow-up study Ponseti et al. evaluated the use of low-dose tacrolimus in 212 MG patients and found that 68 thymectomized patients with postoperative combination therapy of prednisone and tacrolimus. 36 1.00  1.14 48. end. 24 1.06  1.43 65. end. 12 2.00  2.25 86. end. 6 4.00  3.82 95. achieved the highest rate of CSR. Moreover they found that AChR antibodies decreased more significantly and with fewer side effects in patients receiving the combination therapy 12. Minami and colleagues also reported data from nine steroid-dependent MG patients treated with low-dose tacrolimus for 5 years and found that daily living scores improved the dose of prednisolone could be reduced and the ratio of anti-AChR antibody was decreased 3.In this study we report data from 97 MG patients treated with low-dose tacrolimus for 1060 months. Of these patients 2 died after treatment cessation following MG crisis and 1 died from a myocardial infarction. In general the starting dose of tacrolimus is recommended at 3 mg/day or 0.1 mg/kg however we elected to start at a lower dose of 1 mg/day and gradually increase the dosage to 36 mg/day to help prevent side effects caused by over dosage.
In addition there was no statistically significant difference in MG-ADL scores in patients with a history thymoma.Due to CYP3A5 gene polymorphism tacrolimus has a narrow therapeutic window and its efficacy can vary from patient to patient 1315. The frequency of the CYP3A53 variant allele was 51.3% in this study and the dose of tacrolimus for these patients was non-significantly smaller than those with fast metabolic profiles. This is consistent with previously published data by Hong-Guang et al. 16.Previously infection and renal toxicity have been reported with high doses of tacrolimus when used as an antirejection drug 1719. Of the 97 patients included in this study only 7 were withdrawn from tacrolimus treatment due to major side effects. This included the development of neoplasms in 2 patients during the initial months of treatment. However because of the short interval between treatment initiation and diagnosis of the neoplasm we believe that it is very unlikely that tacrolimus was the cause. The most common side effect noted here in was elevated blood glucose however only 1 patient was withdrawn from treatment for this reason. Patients with elevated blood glucose were managed with diet restrictions or hypoglycemic treatments.
Conclusion. This study adds to the growing body of research on the efficacy and side effects of low-dose tacrolimus in the treatment of MG. Tacrolimus immunotherapy is a valid option for the management of MG and can be gradually reduced in dose once symptoms are improved and until complete withdrawal is achieved.Acknowledgements This study was supported by the by 309th Hospital of the Chinese PLA.Compliance with ethical standardsThe appropriate ethics review board approved the design of this.Conflict of interest The authors report no conflicts of interest. One hundred sixteen patients aged 8 to 82 years with myasthenia gravis were treated with prednisone 60 to 80 mg daily until the onset of improvement followed by lower-dose alternate-day therapy of several years duration. Of all patients 80.2% achieved either remission 27.6% or marked improvement 52.6%. Moderate improvement occurred in 14.7% and 5.2% showed no improvement. Increasing age correlated with a favorable outcome but sex duration of illness prior to treatment severity and distribution of weakness at the time of onset of treatment and presence of thymoma were not factors in the response to therapy. Tacrolimus inhibits Th1 and Th17 responses in MuSK-antibody positive myasthenia gravis patients.
We previously demonstrated that patients with MuSK-MG have increased pro-inflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses. Tacrolimus an immunosuppressant used in AChR-MG and transplantation patients inhibits T cell responses through interference with IL-2 transcription. The therapeutic efficacy and immunological effect of tacrolimus in MuSK-MG is unclear. In the current study we examined the proliferation phenotype and cytokine production of CD4 and CD8 T cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of MuSK-MG following a 3-day in vitro culture with or without tacrolimus. We determined that tacrolimus profoundly suppressed CD4 and CD8 T cell proliferation and significantly suppressed Th1 and Th17 responses as demonstrated by a reduced frequency of IFN- IL-2 and IL-17 producing CD4 T cells and reduced frequencies of IFN- and IL-2 producing CD8 T cells. Tacrolimus also inhibits pathogenic Th17 cells coproducing IL-17 and IFN-. In addition tacrolimus suppressed follicular T helper cell Tfh and regulatory T helper cell Treg subsets. These findings provide preliminary support for tacrolimus as a potential alternative immunosuppressive therapy for MuSK-MG.
Guptillb Melissa A. Russob Janice M. Masseyb Vern C. Juelb Lisa D. Hobson-Webbb James F. Howardc Manisha Choprac Weibin Liua John S. Yida Department of Neurology National Key Clinical Department and Key Discipline of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital Sun Yat-sen University Guangzhou China bDepartment of Neurology Duke University Medical Center Durham NC USA c Department of Neurology University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Chapel Hill NC USA dDepartment of Surgery Duke University Medical Center Durham NC USAA R T I C L E I N F OKeywords Myasthenia gravis MuSK-myasthenia gravis Tacrolimus Th1 Th17 Pathogenic Th17 cell. s Follicular T helper cell Regulatory T helper cellA B S T R A C TMuscle specific tyrosine kinase antibody positive myasthenia gravis MuSK- MG is characterized by autoantibodies against the MuSK protein of the neuromuscular junction resulting in weakness of bulbar and proximal muscles. We previously demonstrated that patients with MuSK-MG have increased pro-inflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses. Tacrolimus an immunosuppressant used in AChR-MG and transplantation patients inhibits T cell responses through interference with IL-2 transcription. The therapeutic efficacy and immunological effect of tacrolimus in MuSK-MG is unclear.
We determined that tacrolimus profoundly suppressed CD4 and CD8 T cell proliferation and significantly suppressed Th1 and Th17 responses as demonstrated by a reduced frequency of IFN- IL-2 and IL-17 producing CD4 T cells and reduced frequencies of IFN- and IL-2 producing CD8 T cells. Tacrolimus also inhibits pathogenic Th17 cells coproducing IL-17 and IFN-. In addition tacrolimus suppressed follicular T helper cell Tfh and regulatory T helper cell Treg subsets. These findings provide preliminary support for tacrolimus as a potential alternative immunosuppressive therapy for MuSK-MG. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by autoantibodies to postsynaptic proteins including acetylcholine receptor AChR muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 LRP4 and other components. By binding to their respective synaptic proteins these autoantibodies inhibit neuromuscular transmission in the postsynaptic membrane resulting in skeletal muscle weakness. Approximately 58% of MG patients have autoantibodies against MuSK. These patients classically present with predominant bulbar neck and proximal muscle weakness and may have atrophy of involved muscles.
CD4 T cells play a diverse role in adaptive immunity through their ability to differentiate into T helper subsets with defined roles to induce immune tolerance promote inflammation or support B cell function. In MuSK-MG CD4 T cells exhibit enhanced inflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses Yi et al. 2014 Yilmaz et al. 2015. Thus targeted T cell therapies may be an effective and well tolerated treatment approach.Tacrolimus is an immunosuppressant that inhibits T cell activationhttps//doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2018.11.006 Received 20 August 2018 Received in revised form 25 October 2018 Accepted 22 November 2018Abbreviations MG myasthenia gravis MuSK muscle specific kinase AChR acetylcholine receptor LRP4 lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 FKBP FK506 binding protein NFAT nuclear factor of activated T cell FOXP3 .
dical Center 915 S. LaSalle St. Ext. Box 2926 SORF Building Room 123 Durham NC 27710 USA. E-mail address John.yiduke.edu J.S. Yi.Experimental Neurology 312 2019 4350Available online 22 November 2018 0014-4886/  2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Tand proliferation. Several clinical trials have studied the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in transplantation and AChR-MG Evoli et al. 2002 Nagane et al. 2005 Ponseti et al. 2005 Ponseti et al. 2008. In transplant studies tacrolimus inhibited Th1 and Th17 responses Gallon et al. 2015. While tacrolimus is widely used in transplantation and in Asia for the treatment of AChR MG no studies have reported the effect of tacrolimus in patients with MuSK MG or documented its immunological effects.Given the reported activity of tacrolimus on Th1 and Th17 responses and strong evidence for involvement of these pathways in MuSK MG the objective of this study was to characterize the inhibitory effects of tacrolimus on CD4 and CD8 T cell responses in MuSK-MG patients in order to provide pre. liminary support for the use of tacrolimus as a treatment option for MuSK-MG. Through a set of in vitro studies we observed diminished T cell proliferation along with inhibition of Th1 and Th17 responses.
Collectively this study demonstrates the ability of tacrolimus to inhibit proinflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses and provides rationale for pilot studies using tacrolimus to treat MuSK-MG. 2 end. Material and methods. end. 2.1 end. Study population and controls. Blood samples were obtained from 31 MuSK MG patients. MuSK MG patients were recruited during visits to the MG Clinics at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. All patients had detectable anti-MuSK antibodies according to commercially available testing Athena Diagnostics Worcester MA in addition to clinical and electrodiagnostic features consistent with MG. Key clinical information including demographics disease duration pharmacologic treatments thymectomy status Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA severity class and MG manual muscle testing MG-MMT Table 1 were collected. Control subjects were matched for age and gender as closely as possible weighed>110 pounds were not receiving therapy for any chronic disease and had no prior history of autoimmune disease. This study was approved by the Duke University Institutional Review Board and informed consent was obtained from each patient and normal donor. 2.2 end. Isolation and storage of peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs.
PBMCs were separated by Ficoll GE Healthcare Uppsala Sweden density gradient centrifugation washed and counted prior to storage. Cells were re-suspended in a 90% FBS Gemini West Sacramento CA and 10% DMSO Sigma-Aldrich St. Louis MO solution and progressively cooled to 80 C in a CoolCell cell freezing container BioCision Larkspur CA. The next day the cells were stored in vapor phase liquid nitrogen for future use. 2.3 end. VPD450 labelling. PBMCs were thawed and washed with RPMI medium contained 10% FBS R10 twice and the number of cells and viability calculated. PBMCs were washed with phosphate buffered saline PBS twice to remove residual proteins from previous buffer and then re-suspended in PBS in a polypropylene test tube. Violet proliferation dye 450 VPD450 BD Biosciences San Jose CA 1 L per 1mL cells suspension was added and cells were incubated for 15min in a 37 C water bath. After incubation PBMCs were washed once in PBS and once in R10. The sample was then re-suspended in R10 and used for culturing in differentconditions for 72 h before acquisition on LSRII flow cytometer BD Biosciences San Jose CA.
2.4 end. PBMC culture with tacrolimus. PBMCs were equally split into four parts and plated in 96-well U bottom plates in RPMI with 10% FBS R10. Cells were cultured with 1 g/mL anti-CD3 and 1 g/mL anti-CD28 in the absence or presence of 0 10 or 100 ng/mL tacrolimus Sigma-Aldrich St. Louis MO end. Concentrations were chosen based on published information showing that 510 ng/mL is regarded as the therapeutic trough concentration for usual dosing in MG patients while 100 ng/mL is approximately the peak concentration Kanai et al. 2017. Cells were cultured for 3 or 7 days at 37 C in 5% CO2 in a humidified incubator and 5 h prior to harvesting the cells PBMCs were re-stimulated with 1 g/mL phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate PMA Sigma-Aldrich and 0.25 g/mL ionomycin IONO Sigma-Aldrich in the presence of brefeldin A BD Biosciences. Then the phenotypic molecular and functional characterization of the PBMCs was performed as described below. 2.5 end. Surface and intracellular cytokine staining. Cultured cells were stained with 50uL of LIVE/DEAD violet dye Life Technologies Grand Island NY in PBS for 15min at room temperature to exclude dead cells from the analysis.
Following cell surface staining cells were treated with cytofix/cytoperm BD Biosciences according to the manufacturers recommendations. Intracellular staining was then performed for 30min at 4 C using the following conjugates anti-IFN- FITC anti-IL-17A PerCP-Cy5.5 anti-IL-2 APC and anti-IL-4 PE-Dazzle 594. Anti-IL-2 APC antibody was purchased from BD Biosciences while other cytokine fluorescent antibodies were purchased from Biolegend. Cells were fixed with 1% paraformaldehyde PFA and acquired on a BD LSRII flow cytometer BD Biosciences. 2.6 end. FOXP3 staining. PBMCs were plated in a 96-well round bottom plate and stained with LIVE/DEAD violet dye described above then cells were stained with anti-CD8 AlexaFluor 7000 anti-CD3 APC-Cy7 anti-CD4 BV785 anti-CD25 BV421 for 30min in 4 C. Anti-CD3 anti-CD4 anti-CD8 and anti-CD25 were obtained from Biolegend. Following cell surface staining cells were treated for 1 h at 4 C with the FOXP3/Transcription Factor Fixation/Permeabilization buffer according to the manufacturers recommendations eBioscience San Diego CA. Intra-nuclear staining was then performed for 30min at 4 C with anti-FOXP3 PE Biolegend. Cells were fixed with 1% PFA and acquired on a LSRII flow cytometer BD Biosciences. 2.7 end. Data analysis and statistics.
Paired or unpaired student t-tests were used to determine statistical significance between two matched or unmatched groups respectively. Analysis of variance ANOVA were used to compare the differences among three groups. Tukey HSD test were used for post-hoc analysis. The p values were calculated using Prism software Graph Pad La Jolla CA. 3 end. Results end. end. 3.1 end. Study population. We included 31 MuSK-MG patients. The mean age of the MuSK-MG patients was 44.0 range 2367 years and the gender distribution was similar to prior reports Table 1 Guptill et al. 2011a Guptill and Sanders 2010. The duration from onset of symptoms to blood sample collection was> 1 year in all patients. Thymectomy was previously performed in 9 patients one had thymic hyperplasia and none had a thymoma. Patients were treated with prednisone azathioprine mycophenolate mofetil or combination immunosuppressant treatment. No patients had received rituximab. 3.2 end. Tacrolimus inhibits CD4 and CD8 T cell proliferation. To investigate the inhibitory effects of tacrolimus on the proliferation of CD4 and CD8 T cells we cultured anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 stimulated PBMCs from MuSK-MG patients for 3 and 7 days in the absence or presence of 10 ng/mL or 100 ng/mL of tacrolimus.
Both concentrations of tacrolimus suppressed CD4 T cell proliferation at day 3 but on day 7 only 100 ng/mL of tacrolimus maintained significant suppression of CD4 T cell proliferation Fig. 1A end. Quantitatively there was a significant decrease at day 3 in the proliferation 1.24  0.14 vs 0.94  0.12 p 0.0037 and division index 0.38  0.10 vs 0.21  0.06 p0.001 following the addition of 100 ng/mL of tacrolimus Fig. 1B end. For CD8 T cells both concentrations of tacrolimus inhibited CD8 T cell proliferation at day 3 but the inhibition was not maintained at day 7 Fig. 1A end. The proliferation and division index at day 3 were significantly lower with tacrolimus 1.43  0.08 vs 1.18  0.09 p 0.019 and 0.60  0.12vs 0.31  0.08 p0.005 respectively Fig. 1C end. The decrease in T cell proliferation was supported by a reduction of blasting cells in the tacrolimus conditions data not shown. 3.3 end. Tacrolimus suppresses Treg Tfh-like and Tfr cells.
Treg frequencies decreased dramatically with 10 ng/mL tacrolimus 3.87  0.45% vs 10.85  1.85% p 0.003 Fig. 2A B as did Tfhlike cell frequencies in MuSK-MG patients 9.74  1.07% vs 13.75  1.64% P0.0086 Fig. 2C D end. We also explored circulating Tfr changes in the same culture system and observed lower frequencies of Tfr cells in the presence of tacrolimus 0.84  0.15% vs 2.42  0.55% p0.006 Fig. 2E F end. Although the frequency of Tfh and Tfr cells decreased with 10 ng/mL tacrolimus the ratio of Tfh/Tfr increased from 7.205  1.686 to 14.1  2.777 p 0.005 data not shown. Overall tacrolimus has a suppressive effect on both regulatory and disease mediating CD4 T cell subsets. 3.4 end. Tacrolimus suppresses Th1 and Th17 but not Th2 cell responses. To determine whether inhibition of T cell proliferation with tacrolimus is associated specific T cell subsets we examined tacrolimus effect on the production of IFN- IL-2 IL-4 and IL-17 in conjunction with proliferation. Two concentrations of tacrolimus 10 ng/mL and 100 ng/ mL were tested on PBMCs from MuSK-MG patients in a 3-day in vitro assay.
f T cell proliferation Fig. 3A B end. Tacrolimus had no effect on IL-4 producing CD4 T cells. The ratio of Th1/Treg and Th17/Treg decreased with 10 ng/mL Tacrolimus with a decrease from 0.714  0.697 to 0.147  0.158 p0.0014 and 0.068  0.095 to 0.017  0.013 p0.0233 respectively data not shown. Tacrolimus had a similar effect on CD8 T cells by suppressing IFN- and IL-2 production Fig. 3C end. Overall tacrolimus inhibits Th1 IFN- or IL-2 producing CD4 T cells and Th17 IL-17 producing CD4 T cells associated cytokines whereas IL-4 a Th2 associated cytokine was not affected by tacrolimus. 3.5 end. Tacrolimus suppresses IL-17 IFN-CD4 T cell and IFN-IL-. end. 2 CD4 T cell subsets. Next we analyzed whether tacrolimus could inhibit a subset of CD4 T cells known as pathogenic Th17 cells in MuSK-MG patients. This subset was recently defined as Th17 cells that simultaneously produce IL-17 and IFN- Gaublomme et al. 2015 Hirota et al. 2011. In the presence of tacrolimus the frequency of IL-17 IFN-CD4 T cells were significantly suppressed with both the 10 ng/mL and 100 ng/mL concentrations of tacrolimus Fig. 4A B P 0.001 P 0.001. Th1 cells that can produce IFN- and IL-2 have robust proinflammatory effects Pantaleo and Harari 2006.
4C D P 0.001 P 0.001. 4 end. Discussion. MuSK-MG tends to be more resistant than AChR-MG to existing therapies with the exception of rituximab. Studies have consistently shown that many but not all MuSK-MG patients have excellent responses to rituximab Diaz-Manera et al. 2012 Hehir et al. 2017 Nowak et al. 2011. Rituximab is not available for the treatment of MGworldwide and payor denials may also limit its use. Additional treatment options are needed particularly for situations where rituximab is not available. Other treatment options may be limited by off target side effects e.g. corticosteroids or long latency to clinical effect e.g. azathioprine. Tacrolimus is commonly used in Asia and Europe for the treatment of MG but uncommonly prescribed in the United States where other non-steroidal immunosuppressives such as mycophenolate mofetil and azathioprine are preferred. In this study we explored the immunological impact of tacrolimus on CD4 and CD8 T cell responses in MuSK-MG.
This results in the inhibition of IL-2 gene synthesis T cell activation and proliferation Schreiber and Crabtree 1992 Tocci et al. 1989. In renal transplantation tacrolimus was associated with a reduced risk for acute rejection and better graft function compared with cyclosporine Rath 2013. The efficacy of tacrolimus has been evaluated in AChR-MG patients with doses ranging from 2mg/d to 5mg/d and a favorable clinical response observed within weeks Nagane et al. 2005 Ponseti et al. 2005 Tao et al. 2017 Zhou et al. 2017. To this point the immunological changes induced by tacrolimus therapy in patients with MG have been unclear and the clinical effects in patients with MuSK-MG have not been reported.We initiated this study based on the known mechanism of tacrolimus combined with 1 recent descriptions of higher frequencies of Th1 and Th17 responses in MuSK-MG patients Yi et al. 2014 2 observations of IL-17 elevations in AChR MG patients Roche et al. 2011 Xie et al. 2016 3 experimental autoimmune MG models demonstr.
It is clear that Th1 and Th17 cells are involved in promoting MG immunopathology and T cell targeted therapies such as tacrolimus may enhance treatment efficacy. Given tacrolimus mechanism of action against T cell responses we hypothesized that tacrolimus would suppress the Th1 and Th17 responses that are enhanced in MuSK-MG.Prior studies in AChR-MG patients suggest that trough concentrations of> 4.8 ng/mL or 7-8 ng/mL have been associated with favorable clinical outcomes Kanai et al. 2017 Ponseti et al. 2005. Our study supports that similar concentrations 10 ng/mL have profoundinhibitory effects on proinflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses while Th2 cells are not significantly affected. This suggests that future studies in MuSK-MG patients could use a similar drug concentration target to guide therapy.Th17 cells can be subdivided into pathogenic and non-pathogenic Th17 cells based on their cytokine profile Lee et al. 2012 Stockinger and Omenetti 2017. Pathogenic Th17 cells are implicated in experimental models of autoimmunity and more recently in human disease Hu et al. 2017. This cell subset is induced by IL-23 and simultaneously co-produces IL-17 and IFN- Gaublomme et al. 2015 Hirota et al. 2011.
In this study tacrolimus exposure demonstrated remarkable inhibition of overall Th17 cells but also the IL-17 IFN-pathogenic Th17 subset.Tacrolimus also diminished the frequency of Tfh-like cells. Tfh cells are characterized by their ability to support somatic hypermutation B cells and antibody high-affinity maturation in germinal centers Ueno 2016. In the periphery Tfh-like cells are recognized as memory subset of Tfh that have circulated out of the germinal center and with intact capacity to support antibody producing B cells Sage et al. 2014 Schmitt et al. 2014. While we and others have shown an increase in the frequency of peripheral blood Tfh-like cells in AChR-MG the role of Tfh-like cells in MuSK-MG remains undefined Luo et al. 2013 Zhang et al. 2016. For future studies it will be of interest to quantitatively and qualitatively examine the Tfh phenotypes between AChR and MuSK-Ab MG. If Tfh-like cell phenotype in MuSK-MG mirrors AChRMG the reduction in Tfh-like cell frequencies we observed with tacrolimus would be expected to have a favorable effect of disrupting Tfhlike interactions with B cells ultimately reducing autoantibody production Li et al. 2018.An apparent consequence of adding tacrolimus is the suppression of regulatory cells Tregs and Tfr cells.
The role of Tregs in the breakdown of self-tolerance in MG is uncertain. In AChR-MG reportsshowing an alteration in Treg frequencies are not consistent Fattorossi et al. 2005 Li et al. 2008 Masuda et al. 2010 Xu et al. 2012 and no changes were observed in Treg frequencies of MuSK-MG patients Yi et al. 2014. Prior to this study Tfr cell subsets have not been well reported in MG and the effect of tacrolimus on Tfr cells has not been reported in either MG or transplantation studies. The decrease in Tregs cells may be attributable to tacrolimus induced suppression of IL-2 a critical cytokine involved in the generation of Tregs Wu et al. 2006. As a result a decrease in Treg cells has consequential effects on Tfr cells which originate from Treg precursors Sage and Sharpe 2016. Given the global suppression of the Th response it may be more beneficial to evaluate the balance of the Th17 vs Treg response Noack and Miossec 2014. The dramatic inhibition of inflammatory Th1 and Th17 cells may outweigh any potential negative consequences of reduced Treg frequencies.This study has several limitations. MuSK-MG patients received a variety of immunomodulatory treatments including some with thymectomy which could confound the results.
In addition we expect that tacrolimus would be used as an adjunctive therapy in most cases mimicking the experimental conditions in our study. Thymectomy is not commonly performed in MuSKMG patients currently. For the patients in our study thymectomy was performed prior to recognition of MuSK-MG as a separate clinical entity. All thymectomies were performed many years prior to collection ofblood samples for our study limiting the potential confounding effect on our results. Experimentally this study used cytokine production as a determinant of T cell function and an alternative measurement of function is the quantity of anti-MuSK autoantibodies following culture with tacrolimus.Overall the current study demonstrates tacrolimus ability to suppress proinflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses in MuSK-MG at concentrations that have been used to treat AChR-MG. Furthermore Tfhlike cells known to support B cell proliferation as well as the subset of pathogenic Th17 cells appear very sensitive to tacrolimus. These data provide preliminary support for tacrolimus as a potential therapy for the treatment of MuSK-MG.
If successful tacrolimus could become a welcome additional option to manage these often challenging patients. Acknowledgements. The authors will like to thank all patients who consented to participate in this study. We thank all the members of Dr. Yis laboratory for advice and critical reading of this manuscript. We also thank the Duke Immune Profiling Core DIPC for their flow cytometry services.The study was supported by a Transformative Grant awarded by the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA. YL was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation Key International Regional Cooperation Research Project No.81620108010 and International Program for Ph.D. Candidates Sun Yat-sen University. JTG is supported by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number K23NS085049.Conflicts of interestThe author declare that they have no conflicts of interest related to this study. Clinical efficacy and immunological impact of tacrolimus in Chinese patients with generalized myasthenia gravis.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirectInternational Immunopharmacologyj ourna l homepage www.e lsev ie r.com/ locate / in t impPreliminary reportClinical efficacy and immunological impact of tacrolimus in Chinese patients with generalized myasthenia gravisC.-B. Zhao a X end. Zhang b H. Zhang c X.-Q. Hu d J.-H. Lu ae C.-Z. Lu ae B.-G. Xiao ae a Department of Neurology Huashan Hospital Fudan University Shanghai China b Department of Neurology First Affiliated Hospital Wenzhou Medical College Wenzhou China c Department of Neurology Beijing Hospital Ministry of Health Beijing China d Department of Neurology Third Affiliated Hospital Sun Yat-Sen University Guangzhou China e Institute of Neurology Huashan Hospital Institute of Brain Science and State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology Fudan University Shanghai China Correspond. ing author. Institute of Neurology Huash Science and State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiolog Wulumuqi Road 200040 Shanghai China. Tel./fax 8E-mail address bgxiaoshmu.edu.cn B.-G. Xiao.1567-5769/  see front matter  2010 Elsevier B.V.
Forty-seven generalized myasthenia gravis MG patients were enrolled into this study and given 3 mg/day tacrolimus for 24 weeks. The primary efficacy measurements used to monitor response to tacrolimus in MG patients were the Osserman grade the quantitative MG score QMGS recommended by the MGFA the MG-specific manual muscle testing MMT score and the MG-related activities of daily living MG-ADL scale. Also reduction in steroid doses was used to monitor the effect of tacrolimus. Clinical evaluations were conducted at weeks 4 8 12 16 20 and 24 while immunological parameters were measured at weeks 4 12 and 24. Measurements of the Osserman grade QMGS MMT and MG-ADL all suggested improvement in patient health by the fourth week of treatment. Steroid dosage was reduced during the course of the study in 74.2% of the forty-three patients who completed the study. There were thirty-one reported adverse events in the study. Only one was considered serious. We found that tacrolimus reduced levels of the IFN- IL-2 IL-10 and IL-13 cytokines and induced the proliferation of tolerogenic plasmacytoid dendritic cells after treatment. Tacrolimus did not change the population of T cell subtypes but did steadily reduce the population of BAFF-RCD19 B cells over the course of the study.
The decrease in IL-13 and reduction of BAFF-RCD19 B cells may be related to the therapeutic effect of tacrolimus.an Hospital Institutes of Brain y Fudan University 12 Middle 6 21 62483421.l rights reserved. 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction usually mediated by antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor AChR 1. Approximately 15% of generalized MG patients do not have detectable AChR antibodies although some have antibodies for the muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK. Recent studies have revealed that T cells cytokines and complement are also involved in the pathogenesis of MG 24 opening the door to new treatment strategies for MG targeted at different components of the immune system.MG is clinically characterized by fluctuating weakness and fatigability of the extremities bulbar and extraocular muscles. The incidence of MG is on the rise in several countries 56. Varioustreatments including acetylcholinesterase inhibitors corticosteroids azathioprine cyclophosphamide cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil are currently used to treat MG 7. These treatments can relieveMG symptoms in some cases and decreasemortality.
Steroids are the most widely used therapy and have the highest effectcost ratio. Some patients cannot tolerate steroids and some develop a resistance to them. Therefore new medications need to be found to treat MG patients who do not respond well to steroids.Tacrolimus is derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis and functions in a manner similar to cyclosporine. It exerts a strong immunosuppressive effect and specifically inhibits the production of a number of cytokines that interact with helper T cells 89. Tacrolimus is widely used as immunosuppressive therapy in clinical organ transplantation. In 2000 tacrolimus was approved to treat MG at low doses 3 mg/day in Japan. Since then several non-controlled studies have demonstrated that a low-dose of tacrolimus can effectively and safely improve the health of MG sufferers 1016. The mechanism of low-dose tacrolimus in MG patients is unknownhowever and further studies are necessary to clarify whether MG improvement is necessarily associated with a reduction in IL-2 production as has been previously suggested 1417.
In this investigation we conducted a multicenter open-label pilot study to examine the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in Chinese MG patients. Simultaneously we explored the impact of tacrolimus on immune cell subtypes and Th1/Th2 cytokines in MG patients. 2 end. Patients and methods. end. 2.1 end. Study design. This multicenter open-label pilot study of tacrolimus was approved by the Ethics Committee of Huashan Hospital. The subjects from four centers were administrated tacrolimus tablets orally and followed for 24 weeks. The clinical efficacy and safety of tacrolimus were evaluated by analyzing blood samples taken prior to administering tacrolimus and at weeks 4 12 and 24 during the treatment course. Routine laboratory tests were run on these samples to evaluate the subtypes of immune cells and cytokine levels. 2.2 end. Subjects end. Patients were enrolled into the study based on the following inclusion criteria 1 age 18 years 2 definitive diagnosis of generalized MG 3 steroid treatment with any of the following conditions a poor response to steroids and impaired daily life b frequently close to crisis c requires large dosages of steroid and suffers from side effects d steroid intolerance.
Between October 2007 and October 2008 forty-seven generalized MG patients with mild to severeMG in China were enrolled in the study. All participants signed an informed consent form following extensive explanation of the studys aim. 2.3 end. Dosage regimen. Tacrolimus tablets Prograf were supplied by Astellas Pharma China Inc. Subjects were given 1 mg of Tacrolimus in themorning and 2 mg in the evening for a total daily dosage of 3 mg. It was required that subjects had a meal 2 h prior to taking medication. Subjects who stopped taking tacrolimuswithin the first 20 days were removed from the study. 2.4 end. Clinical evaluation. The subjects were evaluated for the following indicators of MG disease Osserman grade 18 quantitative MG score QMGS recommended by the MGFA 19 an MG-specific manual muscle testing MMT score and anMG-related activities of daily living MGADL scale 2021. The MGFA-QMG MMT and ADL scores at baseline were 13.954.16 9.444.32 and 28.4915.87 respectively. Subjects were assessed for MG disease severity at weeks 4 8 12 16 20 and 24. Metrics for the assessment of tacrolimus efficacy included 1 a decrease in the Osserman grade of at least 1 2 a change in theMGFA-QMG 3 a change in MG-ADL and 4 a change in MMT.
2.5 end. Safety monitoring. The participants were given physical examinations at each visit and routine laboratory tests were conducted at designated time points including a complete blood count urinalysis and serum chemistry. Also an electrocardiogram was recorded at the same time points. Unfavorable events occurring after administration of tacrolimus were recorded as adverse events. 2.6 end. Serum levels of cytokines by ELISA. For the measurement of the serum cytokine levels sera were extracted from samples immediately after collection by centrifugation 3000 r/min 10 min and stored at 20 C. The levels of serum cytokines IL-2 IL-4 IL-10 IL-12 IL-13 IFN- and TNF- were measured using commercially available kits PeproTech Inc. according to manufacturers instructions and quantified by reference to standard curves. Experiments were performed in duplicate and results were expressed as pg/ml. 2.7 end. Isolation of mononuclear cells. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells MNC were extracted from heparinized blood via density gradient centrifugation in a Ficoll/ Hypaque solution Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Piscataway NJ USA. Cells from the interface were collected washed with PBS and adjusted to a concentration of 2106 cells/ml in PBS for flow cytometry. 2.8 end. Flow cytometry.
Cells were gated using forward and sideward scatter characteristics. At least 10000 gated events were collected for every sample using a Coulter Epics XL flow cytometer Beckmann Coulter USA. Data were analyzed using CellQuest software. 2.9 end. Data analysis. The SAS 9.13 program for Windows 2000/XP was used to analyze clinical data. Statistical analysis was performed using both the Wilcoxon signed rank test and paired t-test. Other statistical comparisons between groups were examined using one-waymultiple range ANOVA tests for multiple comparison. Results were expressed as the meanSD. A statistical probability of pb0.05 was considered significant. 3 end. Results end. Of the forty-seven originally enrolled patients four were unable to complete the study see Table 1. These four patients were all receiving prednisone prior to participation in this study. Two patients who lived far from the study site stopped participating and ceased treatment one on day 65 and one on day 90. One patient had to stop participating on day 166 due to an operation on his thymus and one patient developed very serious myasthenic symptoms and came close to crisis prior to beginning the tacrolimus treatment. Unfortunately this individual died during an MG crisis on day 9 of the study.
4 end. Effects of tacrolimus. Changes in the Osserman grade MGFAQMGS MMT and MG-ADL during the tacrolimus treatment are shown in Table 2. With regard to the Osserman grade 46.51% of patients showed a reduction of at least one grade by week 4 74.42% by week 8 67.44% by week 12 86.05% by week 16 88.37% by week 20 and 86.05% by week 24.At week 4 the subjects demonstrated significant improvement as reflected in the MGFAQMGS MMT and MG-ADL values which were 2.23 2.32 and 6.40 respectively Table 2 pb0.0001. At the final visit the median values for these three disease indicators were 5.34 4.74 and 14.7 respectively. Thus the subjects taking tacrolimus showed continuous improvement during the course of the study as measured by all three indicators of MG disease Table 2 pb0.0001. The efficacy of tacrolimus was evident beginning 4 weeks after the start of treatment and gradually increased as the subjects continued to take the drug.Among the 43 patients who completed this study 31 took prednisone prior to enrolling in this study. By week 12 15 of them 48.4%were able to reduce their prednisone dose. At the final visit 23 of them 74.2% were taking reduced doses of prednisone.
However none of the subjects were able to stop taking prednisone completely during the study. 5 end. Side effects of tacrolimus. Thirty-one patients 65.96% reported adverse events during the study. Most of the reported events were mild the one exception being the patient who experienced a myasthenia crisis and died 9 days after treatment. The death was defined as a serious adverse event although was more likely related to the MG crisis rather than to the tacrolimus treatment.The most frequent events included hyperlipoidemia 18.18% hyperglycemia 12.12% diarrhea 12.12% rash 15.15% transaminase abnormality 12.12% and respiratory infection 12.12%. Less frequent side effects such as back pain ankle edema anemia numbness tinea unguium alopecie and hypertension were also recorded. Most of the side effects were experienced temporarily and many patients reported being free from adverse events by the end of study with or without management. Two exceptions included a case of tinea unguium and a case of alopecie. 6 end. Serum cytokines. As shown in Fig. 1 serum levels of the Th1 cytokine IFN- atweek 12 106.38140.25 pg/ml and week 24 105.96114.93 pg/ml were significantly reduced compared with serum levels prior to tacrolimus treatment 140.99191.65 pg/ml pb0.001.
Levels of IL-12 remained relatively stable and were 170.37138.26 pg/ml prior to tacrolimus treatment and 180.16160.13 pg/ml at week 24 pN0.05.In addition tacrolimus treatment led to a significant reduction in Th2 cytokine IL-13 measured at week 4 353.28420.21 pg/ml pb0.001 week 12 318.84321.15 pg/ml pb0.001 and week 24 406.60552.99 pg/ml pb0.05 compared with levels measured prior to treatment 516.561123.00 pg/ml. The serum levels of IL10 were 100.9284.76 pg/ml prior to tacrolimus treatment and did not begin to decline until week 12 72.3765.25 pb0.05. Significant differences in IL-4 and TNF- levels were not observed. 7 end. Lymphocyte and dendritic cell phenotypes. Blood T cells B cells and dendritic cells were identified as CD3 cells CD19 cells and Lin1HLA-DR cells 2223. We measured the levels of these cells in blood samples of these subjects before and after treatment with tacrolimus and found no statistically significant difference data not shown. We further examined the phenotype of regulatory T cells CD4CD25high and CD8CD28 activated B cells CD19BAFF-R and plasmacytoid dendritic cells HLADRCD123. As shown in Fig.
However tacrolimus treatment resulted in a significant decline in the percentage of CD19BAFF-R B cells from 9.255.5% measured in patients prior to tacrolimus treatment to 5.853.50% at week 12 pb0.001 and 4.422.04% at week 24 pb0.001. We also detected a slight rise in the number of circulating HLA-DRCD123 plasmacytoid dendritic cells pDC in MG patients receiving tacrolimus 2.381.28% prior to tacrolimus treatment vs. 3.081.65% 12 weeks after treatment pb0.05.We assessed the correlation between cytokine levels and the clinical response to tacrolimus in these subjects. The clinical response to tacrolimus wasmeasured as the change in QMGS over the course ofthe study. We observed a significant positive correlation between the decrease in IL-13 pb0.01 and CD19BAFF-R B cells pb0.05 and a reduction in QMGS Table 3. These results suggest that the IL-13 cytokine and CD19BAFF-R B cells may be involved in the clinical improvement observed in MG patients receiving tacrolimus. 8 end. Discussion. Tacrolimus is an immunosuppressive drug that has been widely used to treat some refractory autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus 24 autoimmune hepatitis 25 and autoimmune enteropathy 26. Investigations for therapies to treat MG therapy began in the mid-1990s. Yoshikawa et al.
Most of these reports and studies focused on steroid-resistant and - dependent or intolerant generalized MG patients. In an open-label pilot study of thirteen thymectomized MG patients resistant to prednisone tacrolimus enabled all of the patients to be in pharmacological remission after 12 months 28. In a randomized unblinded pilot study of 34 previously untreated MG patients tacrolimus was observed to reduce the duration of early-phase therapy in the hospital and the need for combined immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy 10. Another recent study reported a positive clinical outcome associated with tacrolimus treatment in a young child with retractable ocular MG 29.Similar to most other studies our study included steroid-resistant -dependent or -intolerant generalized MG patients. Importantly this is the first clinical study to examine the therapeutic effect of tacrolimus in Chinese patients with MG. Four weeks after initiating tacrolimus treatment 46.51% of MG patients showed at least one grade reduction in the Osserman grade assessment. By week 24 86.05% had the same improvement.
A recent study of 212 patients revealed that 8% of patients showed obvious improvements in muscular strength 1 week after beginning tacrolimus therapy 50% by week 4 80% by week 12 and 99% by the final visit at week 24 30. This is in line with other studies that have reported that the therapeutic effect of tacrolimus can be observed around 24.4 weeks after initiatingtreatment 1416. Thus tacrolimus conveys an effect relatively quickly compared to other immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclophosphamide.The beneficial effect of tacrolimus for treating MG was further evident in the reduction of steroid dosages for subjects participating in the study. Treatment with tacrolimus enabled patients enrolled in the study to reduce their prednisone doses from 31.0 to 19.2 mg/day by the final visit. Prednisone doses were reduced in 74.2% of patients by the end of this study. Our results are supported by a previous report that showed prednisone could be reduced from 31.6 to 24.1 mg/day in MG patients 4 months after initiating tacrolimus treatment 13. None of the patients in our study could stop taking prednisone completely. Our observation period was limited to 24 weeks however whichmay not have been long enough to determine the maximum effect of tacrolimus.
The serum concentration of tacrolimus has not been correlated with its therapeutic effect 31 and we did not monitor the blood trough level in this study. Due to the low dose used in our study almost all of the recorded side effects were mild and tolerated by patients.Themechanism of action for low-dose tacrolimus inMG patients is unknown but could be due to one or more of its immunomodulatory functions. For instance modulation of the ryanodine receptor/calcium release channel in the sarcoplasmic reticulum and increase in the glucocorticoid receptor transport from the sarcoplasm to the nucleus could be responsible for the observed therapeutic effect 3233. In this study we focused on the immunological impact of tacrolimus in MG patients and analyzed the effect of tacrolimus in these patients on immune cell subtypes and Th1/Th2 cytokines.MG patients have AChR-specific CD4 T cells with T helper function in the blood and thymus 34. A series of studies indicated that the symptoms of MG patients were improved after thymectomy 35 or treatment with anti-CD4 antibodies 36 suggesting a pathogenic role of CD4 T cells in MG patients.
BAFF is an essential B cell survival factor that is mainly expressed by monocytes macrophages dendritic cells and neutrophils. BAFF binds several receptors including BAFF-R which is expressed primarily by B cells 38. BAFF-R signaling in B cells mediates the selection of immature B cells 39. Our previous study showed that MG patients had increased levels of CD19BAFF-R B cells suggesting that MG patients should have increased activation of B cell maturation 40. In this study we found that CD19BAFF-R B cells in patients receiving tacrolimus treatment decreased after 4 weeks. Although we did not note a significant correlation between the decrease of CD19BAFF-R B cells and the titers of anti-AChR antibodies data not shown we found the decrease in CD19BAFF-R B cells was correlated with clinical improvement due to tacrolimus therapy indicating that the positive therapeutic effect of tacrolimus may be partly associated with a reduction in levels of CD19BAFF-R B cells.Levels of the Th1 IFN- and IL-2 as well as Th2 IL-10 and IL-13 cytokines were also reduced after tacrolim. us treatment. The proinflammatory cytokines secreted by Th1 cells such as IFN- and IL-2 activate antigen-presenting cells APCs and facilitate expansion of the immune response.
Other Th2 cytokines notably IL-4 and IL-10 function as B cell growthand differentiation factors that serve to stimulate the production of antibodies.We found that the change in IL-13 significantly correlated with clinical improvement after tacrolimus therapy indicating that IL-13 may be involved in mediating the clinical benefits of tacrolimus. Previous studies reported that BAFF levels were significantly correlated with increased levels of B cell-activating IL-13 4142. Taken together our results suggest that IL-13 and CD19BAFF-R B cells may be involved in the development and progression of MG. A previous report showed that tacrolimus inhibited the secretion of IFN and IL-12 but increased the production of IL-10 43 which is at odds with our findings. Experimental differences may account for the conflicting results. We detected cytokine levels directly in patient serum whereas the other report used cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells.Although the number of patients in our study was relatively small and the subjects were not followed-up beyond 24 weeks a relatively short observation period we did find that low-dose tacrolimus is a useful treatment for generalized MG and well tolerated.
Although our current study on immune cell populations and cytokine levels sheds some light on the pharmacological effects of tacrolimus further investigation is needed to elucidate the precise mechanism of action of tacrolimus in MG patients.In conclusion tacrolimus improves the clinical condition of MG patients and is well tolerated. An immunosuppressant tacrolimus inhibits Th1 and Th2 cytokines as well as BAFF-RCD19 B cells although we did not observe any alteration in the population of T cell subtypes upon treatment with tacrolimus. Our study is also the first to investigate the effects of tacrolimus therapy in Chinese MG patients. We plan to follow-up the results from this study in a larger randomized and controlled study. 9 end. Disclosure. This study was sponsored by Astellas Pharma China Inc. All authors report no disclosures. Multiple Liver Hemangiomas Enlargement During Long-Term Steroid Therapy for Myasthenia Gravis. With progress in imaging modalitie s cavernous hemangiomas of the liver whether symptomatic or not have recently been detected more frequently in daily practice .
Recent studie s suggest that asymptomatic live r hemangiomas can be managed safely by observation regardle ss of the ir size and number because most such lesions remain stable for long periods 1 11 . It also is true  however that a very small subset of cavernous hemangiomas have a tendency to enlarge and become symptomatic or to occasionally rupture 4 7 12 18 . It is of inte rest that spontane ous rupture of live r hemangiomas has been described as be ing frequently associated with the use of steroids such as estrogens and corticosteroids 15 19 . Either enlarge ment or intratumoral hemorrhage of live r hemangiomas has also been documented to occur during pregnancy in women 12 20  23 . Furthe rmore  recurrences of hemangiomas after initial radiation therapy or resection have been reported in women receiving a long-te rm estrogen therapy 24 .
Particular emphasis will be given to the microscopic obse rvation of the resected lesions and the literature will be reviewed. CASE REPORTMultiple Liver Hemangiomas EnlargementDuring Long-Term Steroid Therapy forMyasthenia GravisTSUYOSHI TAKAHASHI MD PhD SADAHITO KUWAO MD PhD HIROYUKI KATAGIRI MDand AKIRA KAKITA MD PhDKEY WORDS liver hemangioma steroids myasthenia gravis transcathete r artery embolization hepatic resection.With progress in imaging modalitie s cavernous hem-angiomas of the liver whether symptomatic or nothave recently been detected more frequently in dailypractice . Although there seems to be a general agree-ment that symptomatic cavernous hemangiomasshould be treated eithe r surgically or radiologicallythe strategy for the manage ment of asymptomaticlesions has remained controversial. Recent studie ssuggest that asymptomatic live r hemangiomas can bemanaged safely by observation regardle ss of the ir sizeand number because most such lesions remain stablefor long periods 1 11 .It also is true  however that a very small subset ofcavernous hemangiomas have a tendency to enlargeand become symptomatic or to occasionally rupture4 7 12 18 .
Either enlarge -ment or intratumoral hemorrhage of live r hemangio-mas has also been documented to occur during preg-nancy in women 12 20  23 . Furthe rmore recurrences of hemangiomas after initial radiationtherapy or resection have been reported in womenreceiving a long-te rm estrogen therapy 24 . None-theless there has been little discussion on the mech-anisms of these conditions to date why should onlylimited cases of liver hemangioma enlarge  rupture or relapse 15 20 24We describe here a patient with live r hemangiomaswho unde rwent partial hepatic resection after a seriesof transcathe ter hepatic-arte ry embolization TAEhad failed to relieve right hypochondrial pain that hadgradually developed for over a seven-year period ofsteroid therapy for myasthenia gravis. Particular em-phasis will be given to the microscopic obse rvation ofthe resected lesions and the literature will be re-viewed. CASE REPORT. Clinical Cour se of the Patient. A 54-year-old female  the mother of three children was admitted to our department on March 16 1996 because of severe pain in the right hypochondrium. She had been seen by our physicians since 1974 on an outpatient basis because of myasthenia gravis.
15300 mg as of March 1996. The patient also had been diagnosed as having asymptomatic cavernous hemangiomas of the liver by ultrasonography US and computed tomography CT in the spring of 1987 Figure 1. She had a previous history of appendectomy with blood transfusion at the age of 19 years but had never taken oral contraceptives.She was  rst referred to our department in February 1989 for the pain that had gradually deve loped after she began to take prednisolone in July 1988 for the treatment of myasthenia gravis. When she was admitted to our hospital on February 20 1989 for thorough examination of the abdomen imaging tests such as US CT and angiography of the abdomen revealed that she did not have any speci c lesions other than the liver hemangiomas in hepatic subsegments 2 S2 8 S8 measuring 3 3 2 and 7 3 5 cm in greate st dimensions respectively Figure 1 and 3 S3. She was discharged from the hospital and had been treated the reafte r with nonste roidal antiin ammatory drugs NSAIDs on an outpatient basis until she was again admitted to our hospital on January 20 1992 because of the Manuscript rece ived August 12 1997 acce pted March 31 1998. From the Departments of Surgery and Pathology Kitasato University School of Medicine 1-15-1 Kitasato Sagamihara Kanagawa 228 Japan.
T end. Takahashi Division of Surgery The Center for Dige stive Disease s Kitasato University East Hospital 2-1-1 Asamizodai Sagamihara Kanagawa 228 Japan. Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998 pp. 1553 1561. 1553Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998 0163-2116/98/0700-155315.00/0  1998 Plenum Publishing Corporationpain. On January 21 1992 TAE using ge latin-sponge particles in iodized poppyseed oil Lipiodol Laboratories Guerbet Aulnay-sous-Bois France was performed for the S8 lesion leading to incomplete and temporary relief of the pain. She was discharged from hospital on February 13 1992 although she had to continue to use NSAIDs for four more years until she was again hospitalized on January 9 1996. Imaging tests such as US CT and abdominal angiography demonstrated that both lesions had somewhat enlarged compared with images taken in 1989 the S2 lesionmeasured 4 3 3 cm and the S8 lesion 9 3 7 cm Figure 1. TAE was again performed for the S8 lesion on the following day using small pieces of ge latin sponge and iodized poppyseed oil.
The angiography following the TAE demon-1554 Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998strated immediate and complete cessation of arterial blood  ow to the S8 lesion Figure 2 . However CT taken shortly afte r the TAE showed that the S8 lesion was contrastenhanced afte r intravenous administration of a contrast dye suggesting the existence of e ither intersegmental communications of arteries or a blood in ow via portal  venous branches Figure 3 . Furthermore the right hypochondrial pain did not disappear even after the procedure. Therefore she  nally underwent resection of the lesions S2 S3 and S8on April 24 1996. Hepatic subsegmentectomy of S8 along with partial resections of the S2 and S3 lesions were completed without dif culty and her postoperative course was uneventful. She was discharged from the hospital on May 22 1996 with complete relief of the hypochondrial pain. No recurrence of the hemangiomas or the hypochondrial pain has been noted for one year since.Morphological Observation of Resected Specimens. Like the microscopic examination the gross appearance of the1555Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998lesions led to a diagnosis of cavernous hemangioma of the liver.
They were encapsulated by a  brous membrane and projected slightly above the liver surface. On section they were soft dark red had the characteristic spongelike or meshlike appearance of cavernous hemangioma and were well distinguished from the surrounding hepatic parenchyma.On hematoxylin eosin staining there were no great dif-ferences in microscopic architecture between the two lesions except for embolization mate rials that were sporadically seen in feeding arteries to the S8 lesion the S2 lesion had never been treated by TAE. The lesions were composed of variable-sized widely dilated vascular spaces lined by  attened endothelial cells. The endothelial cells covered septa of the vascular spaces that were composed of paucicellular  brous and occasionally myxoid tissue. Some of the  brous septa appeared to project into the vascular spaces.1556 Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998A closer look at the lesions further revealed that larger septa contained thick-walled blood vessels and bile ducts. The proliferation of rather large but somewhat variablesized vessels that resembled the portal  venous branches appeared to be more prominent in the present case compared with those usually seen.
A large amount of blood mostly platelets and thrombi in different stages of organization were present in the vascular spaces some of them were rather fresh although already organized and were surrounded by endothelial cells. Some endothelial cells lining the vascular walls had round nuclei suggesting that they were in an active proliferation stage Figure 6. Only a modest loss of e lastic  bers in the vessels was observed by elastica Van Gieson staining. DISCUSSION. Rupture  enlarge ment and/or intratumoral hemor-rhage of cavernous hemangiomas of the live r haveoccurred with some frequency in patients on estrogentherapie s or in pregnant women 12 19  24 . It is wellknown that cavernous hemangiomas of the liver pre-dominate in females 14. They also have been foundin relative ly high incidence in patients with focalnodular hype rplasia FNH of the liver in whichcontraceptives have been suspected to promote thedevelopment of FNH 8 25 27 . Furthe rmore  thetransient appearance of spide r hemangiomas duringpregnancy or hepatic diseases has been observed toresolve if and when the unde rlying source of elevatedestrogens disappe ars 28 .
In the ir report four of the seven patients hadcoexisting diseases such as primary amyloidosis ne-phrotic syndrome  bronchial asthma and prostatecancer and three of those four male patients hadreceived eithe r prednisolone or betamethasone fortheir disease states while the fourth patient had beenFig 4. The vascular spaces of the hemangioma are shown on the right and Glissons capsule on the left. Variable-sized vesse ls resembling the portal venous branche s were frequently observed to proliferate and enter Glissons capsule asterisks hematoxylin  eosin 3 100 .1557Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998treated with estrogens for his prostate cancer. Afteran extensive review of the literature  they corrobo-rated that steroid hormones could have affected thevascular wall of liver hemangiomas leading to spon-taneous rupture s.In this regard a clinical report that referred to theeffect of steroids on the vascular wall has already beenreported by Takagi et al 30 in the  eld of cardio-vascular surge ry. They described four patients whohad unde rgone aneurysmectomy because of aneurys-mal rupture s arising in the aorta and/or branches ofthe aortic arch.
Microscopically characteristic manife sta-tions of the resected specimens were intimal thicken-ing fragmentation of elastic  bers in the medial coatin ammatory cell in ltration hemorrhage and prolif-eration of vasa vasorum of the border between themedial and adventitial coat and thickening of theadventitial coat. Walts and Dubois 31 described asimilar patient with acute dissecting aneurysm of theaorta who also had been on long-te rm corticoste roidtherapy because of systemic lupus erythematosus.Based on the ir obse rvations they conclude d that cor-ticosteroids had exerted adverse effects on the cardio-vascular system leading to the development of aneu-rysms and their rupture . Experimentally such adverseeffects of steroids on the vascular wall also have beendocumented. Manthorpe et al 32 reported results ofan experimental study in rabbits in which the aortawas injure d by a single mechanical dilatation and thatprednisone administe red had shown an inhibitory ef-fect on the biosynthe sis of collagen. They consideredthat prednisone exerted an inhibitory action on themorphological and bioche mical processes of repair inthe vascular connective tissue .
Reilly et al 34 also reported that oral admin-istration of hydrocortisone induce d rapid deve lop-ment of aortic aneurysm and rupture in a dose -Fig 5. Variable -sized portal venous branches are seen to proliferate in Glissons capsule over the entire resected liver specime n arrows hematoxylin  eosin 3 200.1558 Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998dependent manner both in genetically susceptible andin normal mice. They speculated on the existence ofunknown action s of steroids as a factor be ing re-sponsible for the development of aortic aneurysmand/or rupture 35 . In view of these clinical andexperimental observations it seems probable that ste-roids could affect the microarchite cture of vascularwall composing the vascular space s of liver hemangi-omas since these vessels are conside red to be arterialin nature 16 23 36 .With respect to the angione ogenesis effect of ste-roids on the other hand there have been no studie ssupporting a hypothe sis that steroids act directly toinduce and promote neovascularization.
hite cture of the vascular wall.Taking the above obse rvations into account the nding in the present case  that is a number ofvariable -sized vessels along with endothe lial cells withround nucle i lining on the vascular walls were pro-nounce d within the lesions strongly sugge sts that aprolife ration process of the vascular wall was active lygoing on within the lesions. We may be able tointe rpret the microscopic features as being a stage ofthe renovation cycle of the vascular wall of the hem-angiomas whereby acce lerated disruption of the vas-cular wall as a result of decreased collagen synthesisinduced by the steroid therapy and the ensuing repairprocess of the vascular wall by endothe lial cells hadbeen perpetually taking place during the seven-yearperiod of steroid therapy. While only a modest degreeof loss of elastic  bers was obse rved within the vas-cular walls this might be attributable to the longhalf-life of elastin in the vascular wall which has beenreported to be as long as 40 years in rodents 41 Fig 6. Some endothelial cells lining the vascular walls have round nuclei suggesting that these cells are in an active proliferation stage arrows hematoxylin  eosin 3 400 .1559Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end.
Hobbs 9 pointed out that  thereis no controlle d evidence at all that steroids have anyeffect in adults. Although there have been somereports describing juvenile cutaneous and hepatichemangiomas in which steroids exerted some effectson the treatment it was only in limited cases ofhemangioma with a pathophysiology unique to chil-dren 42 43 . Such infantile hemangiomas should beregarded as totally separate entitie s from those com-monly seen in adults because of the differences inhistologic structure as well as clinical manifestationsbetween the adult and the infantile forms 9. Fur-thermore  as was clearly shown in the present patientit should be emphasize d that TAE is not necessarily ade  nitive therapeutic modality for liver hemangio-mas although its ef cacy has occasionally been doc-umented in the control of peritoneal bleeding fromhemangiomas or in the relief of symptoms due tohemangiomas 3 12 13 16 17 . There has been littleevidence however that this method of treatment hasany long-te rm effect 9.
Furthermore it has been reported that TAE hadto be repeated when symptoms recurred and thatmultiple hepatic absce sses with conside rable morbid-ity following TAE occurred in some patients 3.Iwatsuki et al 2 described based on the ir experi-ence  that  symptomatic hemangiomas can be treatedmost effective ly and safe ly by excisional therapy andthat  Ligation embolisation and radiation therapy ofthe hepatic artery have lost their role s in the treat-ment of cavernous hemangiomas. In light of ther. ecent progre ss in liver surgery we would like toagree with their view and recommend that patientswith symptomatic liver hemangiomas should unde rgohepatic resection although some patients still maynot be bene  ted by the procedure thereby requiringthe continuation of palliative therapie s or live r trans-plantation as the most aggre ssive form of treatment atthis point 44  46 . Remission of Severe Myasthenia Gravis After Massive-Dose Vitamin D Treatment. Objective Unusual or unexpected effect of treatment Background Vitamin D has been shown to be related to autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis and psoriasis.
Case Report This is a case report of a patient with severe and refractory myasthenia gravis MG who followed a high-dose vitamin D treatment a massive-dose treatment 80 000 to 120 000 IU/day promoted by a medical center in Brazil but still not proven and she had her first complete remission after this type of treatment with increased vitamin D serum levels 400 to 700 ng/mL. Conclusions This case report may reinforce the reported correlation between vitamin D level and disease severity and introduces a possible new use for vitamin D as a potential target for treating autoimmune diseases. We recommend large double-blind placebo-controlled randomized studies using high-dose vitamin D treatment for refractory autoimmune diseases to reliably assess this pharmacotherapy target for these diseases.
reatment Background Vitamin D has been shown to be related to autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis and psoriasis.Correlations have been reported between vitamin D levels and prevalence and severity of other autoimmune disorders and also between vitamin D therapy and disease improvement and remission.Case Report This is a case report of a patient with severe and refractory myasthenia gravis MG who followed a high-dose vitamin D treatment a massive-dose treatment 80 000 to 120 000 IU/day. promoted by a medical center in Brazil but still not proven and she had her first complete remission after this type of treatment with increased vitamin D serum levels 400 to 700 ng/mL. Conclusions This case report may reinforce the reported correlation between vitamin D level and disease severity and introduces a possible new use for vitamin D as a potential target for treating autoimmune diseases.
Funds Collection GEndocrinology Unit Corpometria Brasilia DF BrazilISSN 1941-5923  Am J Case Rep 2016 17 51-54DOI 10.12659/AJCR.89484951This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Background. Vitamin D has been linked in different ways to multiple autoimmune diseases. Herein correlations were found between vitamin D levels and disease severity 15 incidence 25 and higher-dose vitamin D usage and illnesses improvement or remission 6. In multiple sclerosis besides all these correlations lower vitamin D levels are also associated with relapse 4. Vitamin D is actually a true hormone by definition with a cytosolic receptor that acts in gene transcriptions and silencing. It has been shown to play a role in immune system modulation 715. We performed a PubMed literature search on vitamin D and myasthenia gravis MG and found only 3 articles. A pilot study showed a correlation between lower serum vitamin D levels and MG prevalence as well as autoimmune marker decrease and fatigue improvement after vitamin D3 supplementation with 800 IU/day 6 and 2 other studies demonstrated the role of vitamin D role in the immune system in MG triggering 7 and suppression 8. Case Report.
Between 2008 and 2013 she had some improvements after specific treatments for MG including corticosteroid azathioprine pyridostigmine and thymectomy surgery in 2009. The lowest doses she had been taking until 2013 were prednisone daily intercalation of 20 mg and 5 mg azathioprine 200 mg/day and a daily dose of 120 mg pyridostigmine. She had never had complete remission of MG symptoms even with higher doses of medications such as daily intake of 80 mg of prednisone and 720 mg of pyridostigmine. Moreover she experienced several episodesof disease relapse with critical muscle symptoms worsening and continuous breathlessness.Unsatisfied with her refractory clinical status she decided to look for alternative treatments and looked for a physician who would administer high-dose vitamin D treatment as a potential treatment for vitamin D in autoimmune diseases. In April of 2013 she started to take 80 000 IU/day of vitamin D and to consume a calcium-free diet to prevent hypercalcemia.
She decreased her medication doses followed by a neurologist and was able to suspend pyridostigmine and to decrease prednisone to 10 mg/5 mg every other day and decrease azathioprine to 100 mg. Also her antiacetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies decreased from 7.40 nMol/L to 2.68 nMol/L normal range <0.50 nMol/L Figure 1. All the symptoms and the antibody level had a direct and linear improvement relation with serum 25OHD levels Figure 1. In August of 2014 after an involuntary and blind vitamin D discontinuation due to bad-quality compounding of vitamin D she had a severe relapse and progressed to respiratory insufficiency and intubation. She explained the possible cause of her relapse after a new blood test and sample analysis result of the compounded vitamin D which was shown to contain no cholecalciferol 25-hydroxy vitamin D. Improvement of this relapse was refractory to a large increase in doses of medications but she responded when vitamin D was reintroduced. During this episode her antibodies increased from 2.68 nMol/L to 13.95 nMol/L and vitamin D levels decreased from 605 ng/mL to 284 ng/mL normal range 30 ng/mL to 100 ng/mL Figure 1.
Correlation between AChR antibodieslevels 25OHD levels and disease severity according to Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America clinical classification.Cadegiani F.A. et al. Massive doses of vitamin D for refractory severe Myasthenia gravis Am J Case Rep 2016 17 51-54This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported Licenserange. Parathyroid hormone PTH decreased from 42 ng/mL to 8.5 to 9.5 ng/mL normal range 10 ng/mL to 55 ng/mL. A noticeable and direct correlation among vitamin D levels MG severity and antibody levels could be seen. The patient has only had 1 electromyography prior to the beginning of the follow-up but was not able to bring the result to us. Discussion. Medical and scientific thinking about high-dose vitamin D treatment is still confined to the recommended doses for vitamin D replacement which may not lead to many potential effects whereas in this case report vitamin D might have played a pharmacological role as it was given in massive quantities. Due to the lack of studies with supra-physiological doses of vitamin D aiming to achieve pharmacological actions strong evidence that vitamin D improves autoimmune diseases is yet to be shown.
Cytosolic receptor ability to silence or express genes and immune modulation and inflammation are features that suggest a potential role of vitamin D as a real medication for autoimmune and inflammatory illnesses 681315 with some similarities in immune response when compared to high-dose corticosteroid therapy effects. Thus the possible link between vitamin D and the immune system is at least partially known but it is still not completely understood. The chronological associations between complete remission of MG symptoms and vitamin D massive-dose treatment which had not been seen prior to this therapy relapse after a blind discontinuation and new improvement after vitamin D reintroduction show a strong exposure-withdrawal correlation which shows vitamin D to be a key tool as in this case report.Vitamin D could be an option for refractory situations in most autoimmune maladies. Some reports have shown the same vitamin D exposure correlation with improvements in patients with multiple sclerosis MS and other illnesses. Among the autoimmune disorders MS is the most empirically tested for vitamin D massive-dose despite the lack of evidence of longterm safety of massive-dose vitamin D treatment.
Moreover sudden interruption of vitamin D therapy could theoretically cause a severe relapse which was seen in this case report.For these reasons double-blind randomized placebo-controlled studies that test effects of massive doses of vitamin D in the most common autoimmune diseases should be conducted as there is enough data to suggest that vitamin D could be an effective therapy for these disorders. Although some trials that are testing supra-physiological doses of vitamin D as a potential pharmacological tool are being conducted with multiple sclerosis patients there are at present no such trials in other diseases.Researchers should be careful before concluding that vitamin D works as a pharmacologic target as sub-dosage is a potential bias for investigations. Massive-dose vitamin D therapy is still an open field and future possibly inconsistent findings might be due to heterogeneity of the doses used. As previous reports with large sample sizes using long-term massive doses of vitamin D 80 000 to 120 000 IU/day did not show important and severe adverse effects these daily quantities are plausible to be initiated in further studies.
d not be offered as an alternative to the available options for MG treatment. Conclusions. Vitamin D could be a potential therapy for some disorders. This case report shows the correlation between vitamin D and myasthenia gravis clinical status which reinforces the possibility of benefits with massive-doses of vitamin D in MG. Possibly vitamin D massive-dose treatment could eventually be considered as the next corticosteroid therapy due to similarities in immune responses and mechanisms of action with this well-established modality even though it is still too early to claim that. A new approach to anesthesia management in myasthenia gravis reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex. 181 Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder involving the destruction of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction and is characterized by weakness and exercise-induced skeletal muscle fatigue. One of the anesthesic-related complications in such patients requiring relaxation ie. paralysis during general anesthesia is an increased sensitivity to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs NMBD.
Therefore NMBDs should be given with care ie. smaller doses in patients with myasthenia gravis. Even small doses of a NMBD can lead to profound muscle paralysis with a prolonged spontaneous recovery or indadequate reversal by neostigmine. A delayed recovery may result in a dangerous postoperative residual paralysis and the need for postoperative mechanical ventilation. It is therefore recommended to pharmacologically reverse neuromuscular blockage at the end of surgery to prevent respiratory morbidity and mortality in every patient especially more vulnerable patients like those with myasthenia gravis. Classically reversal of NMBDs is performed by administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as neostigmine. However patients with chronic use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may already have an optimal inhibition of this enzyme and therefore reversal with cholinesterase inhibitors is less effective. Rev end. Esp end. Anestesiol. Reanim end. 2010 57 181-184 CASO CLNICO. 55 181Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder involving the destruction of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction and is characterized by weakness and exercise-induced skeletal muscle fatigue.
paralysis during general anesthesia is an increased sensitivity to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs NMBD1-3. Furthermore the chronic use of acetylcholinestrase inhibitors such as pyridostigmine in these patients may interfer with the dose response relationships and effectiveness of NMBDs and their antagonists4. Therefore NMBDs should be given with care ie. smaller doses in patients with myasthenia gravis. Even small doses of a NMBD can lead to profound muscle paralysis with a prolonged spontaneous recovery or indadequate reversal by neostigmine4. A delayed recovery may result in a dangerous postoperative residual paralysis and the need for postoperative mechanical ventilation1-3. It is therefore recommended to pharmacologically reverse neuromuscular blockage at the end of surgery to prevent respiratory morbidity and mortality in every patient especially more vulnerable patients like those with myasthenia gravis5.Classically reversal of NMBDs is performed by administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as neostigmine. However patients with chronic use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may already have an optimal inhibition of this enzyme and therefore reversal with cholinesterase inhibitors is less effective.Rev. Esp end. Anestesiol. Reanim end.
D end. de Boer1 J. van Egmond2 J. J end. Driessen2 L. H.J.D end. Booij2 1Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine Martini General Hospital Groningen the Netherlands. 2Department of Anesthesiology Pain  Palliative Medicine Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre the Netherlands. Summary end. A neuromuscular blocking drug NMBD induced neuromuscular blockade NMB in patients with myasthenia gravis usually dissipates either spontaneously or by administration of neostigmine. We administered sugammadex to a patient with myasthenia gravis to reverse a rocuronium-induced profound NMB. NMBDs predispose such patients to severe postoperative residual paralysis and respiratory complications. Sugammadex binds steroidal NMBDs and therefore reverses a rocuronium or vecuronium-induced NMB without interfering with cholinergic transmission. A rapid and complete recovery from profound NMB was achieved and no adverse events were observed. This case suggests that sugammadex is a safe and effective antagonist of a rocuronium induced NMB blockade in patients with myasthenia gravis. Key words. Myasthenia gravis. Sugammadex. Rocuronium. Neuromuscular blockade.
Resumen end. Un frmaco bloqueante neuromuscular FBNM que induce bloqueo neuromuscular BNM en pacientes con miastenia gravis habitualmente desaparece bien de manera espontnea o mediante la administracin de neostigmina. Nosotros administramos sugammadex en un paciente con miastenia gravis para revertir un BNM profundo inducido por rocuronio. Los FBNM predisponen a algunos pacientes a graves parlisis residuales postoperatorias as como a complicaciones respiratorias. Sugammadex anula la respuesta esteroidea del FBNM y por tanto revierte un BNM inducido por rocuronio o vecuronio sin interferir en la transmisin colinrgica. Se logr una rpida y completa recuperacin de un profundo BNM y no se observaron efectos adversos. Este caso sugiere que sugammadex es un seguro y efectivo antagonista de rocuronio como inductor de bloqueo neuromuscular en pacientes con miastenia gravis. Palabras clave. Miastenia gravis. Sugammadex. Rocuronio. Bloqueo neoromuscular. Frmaco de reversin.CorrespondenceH. D end. de Boer end. Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine. Martini General Hospital Groningen. PO Box 30033 9700 RM Groningen The Netherlands. E-mail HD.de.Boermzh.nlAceptado para su publicacin en marzo de 2010.Rev. Esp end. Anestesiol. Reanim end. Vol end. 57 Nm end.
Sugammadex a modified g-cyclodextrin has been approved by the European Medicines Agency as therapy for reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by the steroidal non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs rocuronium and vecuronium7. In clinical anesthesia and emergency medicine sugammadex has been available for almost one year in several European countries and is successfully used to reverse neuromuscular blockade and to eliminate postoperative residual neuromuscular blockage or partial paralysis induced by these NMBDs.We describe a case in which a patient received a single dose of sugammadex to reverse a rocuroniuminduced profound neuromuscular blockade. The perioperative management and the safety and efficacy of sugammadex in this myasthenia gravis patient is discussed. Case Report. A 73 year-old female patient weight 81 kg was diagnosed with a malignant tumor of the left breast. Her medical history revealed seronegative myasthenia gravis with ocular signs and symptoms and mild generalized muscle weakness class I-IIa myasthenia gravis severity classification system by Osserman and Jenkins diagnosed at the age of 61 years8.
After that procedure the patient was admitted to the ICU for postoperative mechanical ventilation.Eight years later the patient was scheduled for mastectomy and sentinel node procedure under general anesthesia. An ICU bed was available postoperatively if needed. She had a decreased forced vital capacity and decreased maximal forced inspiratory and expiratory flow as measured by preoperative pulmonary function tests. Residual volume and total lung capacity were normal. There were no signs of cardiac or other pathology. Evaluation of the blood values including blood chemistry and hematology analysis showed no abnormalities. Her medication which was oral pyridostigmine 60 mg six times a day was continued perioperatively.After obtaining informed consent the patient agreed that we would study the use of sugammadex in order to determine its rocuronium-binding effectiveness in patients with MG. We agreed to administer a small dose of rocuronium which would be allowed to recover spontaneously followed by a second equal dose which we would reverse shortlyafter its administration. The patient was therefore acting as its own control.
The ulnar nerve was stimulated near the wrist with square wave pulses of 0.2 msec delivered as train-of-four TOF pulses of 2 Hz at intervals of 15 seconds. The contractions of the adductor pollicis muscle were quantitatively measured using acceleromyography. The data were recorded on a computer TOFMON 1.2 Schering-Plough Ireland Ltd Dublin Ireland. The primary efficacy variable for reversal was defined as the time recovery time from the start of the administration of sugammadex until 90% recovery of the ratio of the fourth T4 to the first T1 response in the pulse train. This is the standard of safe recovery as defined in the guidelines for Good Clinical Practice in neuromuscular monitoring9.Premedication consisted of oral paracetamol 1000 mg before anesthesia. On arrival at the operating room an intravenous IV line was inserted. Standard intraoperative monitoring included ECG non-invasive measurement of arterial blood pressure and pulse oximetry. After the patient breathed 100% oxygen anesthesia was induced and maintained with continuous IV infusion of propofol 6-12 mg/kg/h and remifentanil 0.10-0.25 g/kg/min. Procedures for the setup calibration and stabilization of neuromuscular monitoring were performed.
This was followed by endotracheal intubation and the lungs were ventilated with a mixture of oxygen and air in a ratio of 23. After spontaneous recovery TOF-ratio > 90% of this profound neuromuscular blockade in about one hour a second dose of rocuronium 0.15 mg/kg total 12.1 mg was given which again lead to a profound neuromuscular blockade. After reaching profound neuromuscular blockade from this second dose of rocuronium Fig 1 neuromuscular blockade was reversed by the IV administration of 4.0 mg/kg sugammadex 324 mg. The dose of sugammadex was chosen according to the dose advice in the label regarding the depth of neuromuscular blockade at the time of reversal. The recovery times of both spontaneous recovery and recovery after reversal with sugammadex were compared.The time to spontaneous recovery from the first profound rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade to a TOF of 0.9 was 36.5 min. The time from the start of the administration of sugammadex after the second dose of rocuronium to recovery of the TOF-ratio to 0.9 was 2.7 min.No changes were observed in arterial blood pressure heart rate or ECG after administration of the sugammadex dose.The surgical procedure was uneventful and at the end of the anesthesia the trachea was extubated.
There she was monitored until 120 minutes after the administration of sugammadex for signs of possi-ble residual neuromuscular blockade. No such signs were observed and the patient was discharged to the ward from which she went home 3 days later. Discussion. Reversal of rocuronium-induced profound neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex in our patient with myasthenia gravis was faster compared with spontaneous recovery of the same depth of neuromuscular blockade and without signs of residual weakness or neuromuscular blockade. Administration of a small dose of rocuronium was indicated because myasthenia gravis patients are highly sensitive to non-depolarizing NMBDs like rocuronium or vecuronium. Specifically the ED95 for vecuronium in myasthenia gravis patients is 56% of normal and the neuromuscular blockade is prolonged1. For rocuronium the ED95 in myasthenia gravis patients is unknown. Therefore we decided to give 0.15 mg/kg which is only 25% of the standard dose required for endotracheal intubation in normal patients.
In patients with myasthenia gravis spontaneous recovery from neuromuscular blockade is much slower than normal and therefore reversal of neuromuscular blockade is the best strategy to facilitate rapid and complete recovery after surgery1-3.However reversal of neuromuscular blockade in myasthenia gravis patients who are already receiving cholinesterase inhibitor medication is complicated by variable response and unreliable effect134. Moreover patients with chronic use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may already have an optimal inhibition of this enzyme and reversal with these compounds istherefore not possible. Additional doses of cholinesterase inhibitors may even lead to a cholinergic crisis characterized by muscle weakness bradycardia increased secretions and gut motility14. Rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block can be reversed by cholinesterase inhibitors such as neostigmine edrophonium or pyridostigmine10. However cholinesterase inhibitors have a number of undesirable side-effects bradycardia bronchoconstriction hypersalivation abdominal cramps and nausea and vomiting which can be counteracted by coadministration of muscarinic antagonists atropine or glycopyrrolate. Importantly muscarinic antagonists also have side-effects blurred vision dry mouth and tachycardia11.
Encapsulation of the rocuronium molecule by sugammadex results in a rapid decrease in free rocuronium concentration in the plasma and subsequently also at the nicotinic receptor in the motor endplate. This leads to a rapid reappearance of normal muscle activity. After encapsulation rocuronium is not available to bind to the nicotinic receptor in the neuromuscular junction but is excreted in the urine13.Patients with myasthenia gravis may present for any type of surgery and need to be thoroughly evaluated and prepared preoperatively. Such evaluation includes assessment of respiratory and bulbar function. A reduced forced vital capacity FVC and poor bulbar function are strong indicators for the risk that postoperative mechanical ventilation will become necessary3. Furthermore patients with myasthenia gravis may have cardiac arrthymias such as sinus bradycardia and atrial fibrillation1. This may evoke complications when in the process of reversing a neuromuscular blockade atropine is given. Preoperative medical management should also aim at optimal muscle function. Although57 183H. D end.
As sugammadex does not interfere with cholinergic transmission continuation of cholinesterase inhibitors preoperatively does not affect the efficacy of the reversal of neuromuscular block by sugammadex and therefore optimal muscle function is preserved.Several publications demonstrated a very fast onset and markedly prolonged duration of action of nonde polarizing NMBDs in patients with myasthenia gravis1-4. Reversal of neuromuscular block by sugammadex will eliminate the risk of residual neuromuscular blockade in such a vulnerable patient population. Reversal of rocuronium-induced profound neuromuscular block by sugammadex in our patient with myasthenia gravis was rapid efficient and without signs of postoperative residual neuromuscular blockage. Our case suggests that the combination of rocuronium and sugammadex for safe neuromuscular blockade and reversal is beneficial in myasthenia gravis.BIBLIOGRAFA1. Briggs ED Kirsch JR. Anesthetic implications of neuromuscular disease. J Anest1h 2003173177-85.2. Dillon FX. Anesthesia issues in the perioperative management of Myasthenia gravis. Semin Neurol. 200424183-94. 3 end. Hirsch NP. Neuromuscular junction in health and disease. Br J Anaesth. 2007991132-8. 4 end. Tripathi M Kaushik S Dubey P.
J Postgrad Med. 2003494311-5. 5 end. Arbous MS Meursing AEE van Kleef JW de Lange JJ Spoormans HH Tonw P. Impact of anesthesia management characteristics on severe morbidity and mortality. Anesthesiology. 20051022257-68. 6 end. Bom A Bradley M Cameron K Van Egmond J FFeilden H Mactean EJ et al. A novel concept of reversing neuromuscular block Chemical encapsulation of rocuronium bromide by a cyclodextrin-based synthetic host. Angew Chem Ed Engl. 2002412266-70. 7 end. De Boer HD. Neuromuscular transmission new concepts and agents. J Crit Care. 200924136-42. 8 end. Osserman KE Jenkins G. Studies on Myasthenia gravis. Review of a twenty-year experience in over 1200 patients. Mount Sinai J Med. 1971386497-537. 9 end. Fuchs-Buder T Claudius C Skovgard LT Erikson LI Mirakhur RK Viby-Hogensen J et al. Good clinical research practice in pharmacodynamic studies of neuromuscular blocking agents. II The Stockholm revision. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2007517789-808. 10 end. Osmer C Vogele C Zickman B Hengelmann G. Comparative use of muscle relaxants and their reversal in three European countries a survey in France Germany and Great Britain. Eur J Anaesthesiology. 1996134389-99. 11 end. Saarnivaara L Simola M.
Acta Anaesthesiologica Scand. 1998424460-3. 12 end. Baurain MJ Hoton F dHollander AA Canyraine FR. Is recovery of neuromuscular transmission complete after the use of of neostigmine to antagonoze block produced by rocuronium vecuronium atracurium and pancuronium. Br J Anaesth. 1996774496-9. 13 end. Gijsenberg F Ramael S Houwing N Van Lersel T. First human exposure of Org 25969 a novel agent to reverse the action of rocuronium bromide. Anesthesiology. 20051034695-703. Rev end. Esp end. Anestesiol. Reanim end. Vol end. 57 Nm end. 3 2010 end. 184 58 end. Staphylococcal Carriage and Infection in Myasthenia Gravis Patients Receiving Therapeutic Apheresis. Populations exposed to repetitive needle puncture such as hemodialysis patients insulin-dependent diabetics and parenteral drug abusers are at increased risk for nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus. These groups appear to have increased susceptibility to serious staphylococcal infection as well.
Medical records were reviewed for episodes of significant staphylococcal infection occurring since commencement of apheresis. Nasal S end. aureus carriage was found in 9/29 31% apheresis patients 8/30 27% MG controls and 8/30 27% general medical controls. No significant difference in frequency of apheresis was noted between carriers and noncarriers. A single episode of S. aureus bacteremia occurred in 95 patient-years of apheresis therapy. We conclude that therapeutic apheresis for MG does not increase the risk of staphylococcal carriage and that serious infection is infrequent. The emerging role of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis. Objective To describe and evaluate the available evidence assessing the role of tacrolimus in the management of patients with myasthenia gravis MG. Data sources A literature search of MEDLINE 1946 to September 2014 and EMBASE 1947 to September 2014 was performed using the terms tacrolimus and myasthenia gravis. Citations of retrieved articles were examined for relevance. Study selection and data extraction The search was limited to prospective clinical trials focused on clinical outcomes in patients with generalized MG. Case reports retrospective evaluations and non-English articles were excluded.
Other studies evaluated early initiation of tacrolimus after thymectomy effectiveness of tacrolimus in de novo MG and the effectiveness of tacrolimus post-thymectomy in thymoma patients versus nonthymoma. A total of eight trials showed statistically significant improvements in quantitative MG score QMGS and postintervention status criteria  Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America PSC-MGFA. Of the trials examining steroid reduction with tacrolimus two reported high rates of complete withdrawal however the most robust trial was unable to detect a difference in mean steroid dose. Long-term effects of tacrolimus up to 5 years were assessed in eight trials which consistently showed positive effects on QMGS or reduction in adjunct therapies. Conclusions There is limited yet promising information to suggest a beneficial role for tacrolimus in reducing QMGS and corticosteroid burden in patients with refractory symptoms or new-onset MG. Long-term use appears to be safe in this population. 92 http//tan.sagepub.comIntroduction Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disorder in which antibodies are produced that target and destroy nicotinic acetylcholine ACh receptors at the neuromuscular junction of striated muscle cells Drachman 1994.
Approximately 20.4 out of every 100000 individuals or about 60000 Americans are afflicted with the disease Phillips 2004. There is a bimodal distribution for age of onset more commonly affecting females in their 20s and 30s whereas males face a typical onset after age 50 Howard 2008. The average annual healthcare plan cost of treating the disease may approach 25000 per patient per year and it has been estimated that MG is comparatively more expensive to treat than other neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis Alzheimers disease and migraine headache Guptill etal. 2011 end. Symptoms are often fluctuating in nature and may include muscle weakness or easy fatigability ptosis and trouble with chewing and swallowing. Howard 2008 A standard classification system for the disease may be used to define prognosisKeywords disease management drug information immunosuppressants myasthenia gravis neurology Correspondence toJennifer L. Cruz PharmD BCPS Drug Information Geriatric Research and Education Clinical Center Durham VA Medical Center 508 Fulton Street 119 Durham NC 27705 USA jennifer.cruzunchealth. unc.eduMarissa L. Wolff PharmD BCPS Adam J. Vanderman PharmD BCPS Geriatrics Geriatric Research and Education Clinical Center Durham VA Medical Center Durham NC USAJamie N.
Class I is mild in nature whereas Class V is the most severe form requiring intubation Jaretzki et al. 2000 end. Classes II III and IV may be further subdivided into category a which primarily impacts the limbs or b which primarily affects the respiratory muscles or those of the tongue or mouth.Treatment strategies usually involve an individualized approach based on patient-specific characteristics such as age sex disease severity functional impairment and organ function Howard 2008 Jani-Acsadi and Lisak 2002. Treatment goals include achieving disease remission and normal functionality while minimizing the risk for adverse effects of medications Nicolle 2002 Juel and Massey 2005. In 2010 the European Federation of Neurological Societies developed evidence-based consensus recommendations for MG Skeie etal. 2010 end. There are no consensus guidelines in the United States for the optimal management of patients with MG however several review articles have been published on the subject Drachman 1994 Jani-Acsadi and Lisak 2010 Nicolle 2002 Juel and Massey 2005 Richman and Agius 2003 Silvestri and Wolfe 2012 Sanders and Evoli 2010 DiazManera etal.
Anticholinesterase inhibitors e.g. pyridostigmine have been a mainstay in the symptomatic management of weakness associated with MG for many years Nicolle 2002 Richman and Agius 2003 Silvestri and Wolfe 2012. These agents act by inhibiting the action of the cholinesterase enzyme at the neuromuscular junction which increases available ACh for binding thus enhancing transmission of nerve impulses Valeant Pharmaceuticals 2013. When rapid symptom control is necessary such as during an exacerbation of the disease IVIG or PLEX may be indicated to provide temporary improvement. These therapies may also be utilized in a prophylactic manner such as before undergoing surgery Ahmed etal. 2005 end. Long-term suppression of the immune system may be achieved with use of corticosteroids or other agents such as azathioprine cyclophosphamide cyclosporine mycophenolate and methotrexate Howard 2008 Cahoon and Kockler 2006. While effective for immunosuppression there are numerous untoward effects of continued corticosteroid use that have been reported in patients with MG such as Cushingoid appearance osteoporosis hyperglycemia weight gain elevated blood pressure and increased risk for infection Pascussi et al. 1984 end.
2007 end. Tacrolimus may be a favorable option in the management of patients with MG. It is a calcineurin inhibitor indicated for the prevention of rejectionat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 8294 http//tan.sagepub.comafter heart kidney and liver transplant. Unlike cyclosporine tacrolimus has greater potency and may result in less nephrotoxicity when used at low doses Sanders and Evoli 2010. Depending on the indication the initial dosage in transplant patients may range from 0.075 to 0.2 mg/kg/day which may achieve whole blood trough concentrations of 420 ng/ml. Its immunosuppressive action is suggested to be due to the inhibition of T lymphocyte activation through its intracellular binding to the protein FKBP-12. This complex interferes with the activity of calcineurin which in turn prevents nuclear factor of activated T-cells NF-AT from translocation and initiation of gene transcription for lymphokines such as interleukin-2 IL-2. In addition to causing T-cell inhibition tacrolimus may play a role in the suppression of humoral immunity Astellas Pharma 2013.
2012.Tacrolimus exhibits a variable rate of absorption and bioavailability and oral doses of 3 to 4 times the intravenous dose may be required to achieve similar therapeutic plasma concentrations. The drug is approximately 99% protein bound and is extensively metabolized in the liver by cytochrome P450 system to several metabolites. It is predominately excreted in the feces and less than 1% is eliminated in the urine as unchanged drug Astellas Pharma 2013 Venkataramanan et al. 1995 end. Notable adverse effects include hypertension headache tremor renal impairment newonset diabetes mellitus diarrhea malignancy e.g. lymphoma and dermatologic and increased risk of infection. Additionally the potential for drug interactions involving the CYP 3A4 pathway should be taken into consideration Astellas Pharma 2013.Case reports and retrospective analyses have suggested tacrolimus may be utilized in the treatment of MG and that it may be useful in a variety of patient types including those with immunosuppressant-dependency recent thymectomy or those in which thymectomy is contraindicated Ponseti et al. 2007 2008 Chung et al. 2008 Tsukaguchi etal. 2005 Shimojima etal. 2004 end.
Data sources. A search of MEDLINE 1946-September 2014 and EMBASE 1947-September 2014 was performed using the terms tacrolimus and myasthenia gravis. The search was limited to prospective clinical trials with a focus on clinical outcomes in patients with generalized MG written in the English language. Case reports and retrospective evaluations were excluded from this review. Citations of retrieved articles were also examined for relevance and included if applicable. A total of 12 studies met inclusion criteria Shimojima etal. 2006 Nagaishi et al. 2008 Tada et al. 2006 Konishi et al. 2003 2005 Zhao et al. 2011 Yoshikawa etal. 2011 Ponseti etal. 2005a 2005b 2006 Nagane et al. 2005 Mitsui et al. 2007 end. Table 2 provides a summary of the pertinent findings from each trial. Literature evaluation. end. Steroid-sparing effects. The review covered seven articles which evaluated the use of tacrolimus in steroid-dependent patients Shimojima et al. 2006 Nagaishi et al. 2008 Tada etal. 2006 Konishi etal. 2003 2005 Zhao etal. 2011 Yoshikawa etal. 2011.Shimojima and colleagues prospectively evaluated seven patients with resistant MG symptoms despite corticosteroid therapy Shimojima et al. 2006 end.
Patients were observed for changes in quantitative MG score QMGS and MG-related activities of daily living MG-ADL score. The mean age was 49.5 years with disease duration of 10.3 years all but one had undergone thymectomy. At study entry six of the seven patients were treated with prednisolone and were taking a mean daily dose of 20.8 mg range 530 mg. One patient was unable to take corticosteroids due to adverse effects. Disease severity was classified as follows grade I three patients grade IIb two patients grade IIa one patient and IIIa one patient. At the 3 and 6 month time points there was a statistically significant reduction in both the QMGS and MG-ADL p < 0.05. Although reduction in steroid doseat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromJL Cruz ML Wolff et al.Therapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 8296 http//tan.sagepub.comClinical situation Study Design Population Dosage Duration Efficacy measuresResults Adverse effects % of patientsYoshikawa et al.
oductionNo  2 discontinuations for appendicitis and insomniaCorticosteroid with cyclosporine failurePonseti et al. 2005a Open-label single center n  13 0.1 mg/ kg/day1 year Median  QMGS Mean  AntiAChR AB 20.93 6.6 nMNo notable adverse effectsPSC-MGFA 13 PR Mean TEMS 26.53 Ponsetiet al. 2005b Open-label single center n  79 0.1 mg/ kg/day2.5 years Mean  prednisolone dose Withdrawal of steroids Mean  QMGS Mean  AntiAChR AB PSC-MGFA % of patientsMean  TEMS56.5 mg/day. 77 patients. 20.2 34.8 nM. CSR 5.1% PR 88.6% MM 6.4% 26.83 new malignancies included 2 patients with lung cancer and 1 with renal cancer after 4 to 6 months of treatmentPostoperative thymectomyPonseti et al. 2006 Open-label single center n  49 0.1 mg/ kg/day660 monthsWithdrawal of steroids at 1 2 years Mean  prednisone dose Mean  QMGS Mean  AntiAChR AB PSC-MGFA % of patients Mean  TEMS 93.7% 100% of patients 80.7 mg/day 20.7 20.8 nMCSR 33% PR 62.6% MM 4% 24Hypomagnesemia 23.7% paresthesia 5.3% tremor 5.3%De novo diagnosisNagane et al.
Continuedat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromJL Cruz ML Wolff et al.http//tan.sagepub.com 97was not an endpoint of this investigation dosing changes were reported. Four patients had the dose of prednisolone tapered at their own request two of these patients were tapered rapidly 1 month after starting tacrolimus from 20 and 30 mg per day to 5 mg per day. After several months symptoms worsened and the steroid dose was increased to 20 mg daily in both patients. The other two patients were tapered more slowly starting doses of 20 and 30 mg per day reduced by 2.5 mg every 3 months after a much longer tacrolimus treatment duration 69 months and did not require a dose re-escalation. No notable adverse effects were observed Shimojima etal. 2006.Nagaishi and colleagues published the results of a small uncontrolled trial which enrolled 10 patients with generalized steroid-dependent MG classified as grade IIb to IIIb. A total of nine patients had undergone thymectomy and were receiving prednisolone at a mean dose of 18.5 mg per day range 560 mg Nagaishi etal. 2008 end. Tacrolimus was administered as 3 mg/day after the evening meal. Pyridostigmine doses remained constant during the study period. Patients were followed for a mean of 3.1 years range 15.1 years.
Within 1 month two patients discontinued due to adverse effects diarrhea and diabetes mellitus and one withdrew voluntarily. Improvements inMG-ADL were observed for five patients at 1 and 6 months respectively. Of the five subjects who achieved pharmacologic remission PR or minimal manifestation MM of the disease according to the Post-Intervention Status Criteria Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America PSCMGFA four were slowly titrated off prednisolone after a mean 13.2 months Nagaishi etal. 2008.Tada and colleagues evaluated the long-term safety and efficacy of tacrolimus in steroiddependent or unresponsive patients Tada et al. 2006 end. A total of nine subjects with disease severity class IIa to IVb were administered 3 mg of tacrolimus every evening. Significant improvement defined as a decrease in total QMGS by 3 points or more was achieved in a majority of patients after 6 months and 1 year. In addition total QMGS significantly decreased after 3 6 and 12 months of treatment with tacrolimus. Adverse effects were noted to be mild in nature and included an increase in hemoglobin A1c HbA1c and a reduction in lymphocytes in 33.3% of subjects.
2006.Konishi and colleagues conducted a 16 week open-label trial at 10 centers in Japan KonishiClinical situation Study Design Population Dosage Duration Efficacy measuresResults Adverse effects % of patientsPresence of thymomaMitsui et al. 2007 Open-label controlled single center n  10 3 mg/day 3 months  QMGS at 1 3 months Baseline antiAChR ABAnti-AChR AB at 1moAnti-AChR AB at 3 months68.1636.4 versus 16.57.8 nM 53.830.9 versus 16.58.3 nM 79.253.9 versus 15.255.2 nMNo notable adverse effectsAnti-AChR AB anti-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antibody titer CSR complete stable remission HMP high dose intravenous methylprednisolone IL-2 interleukin-2 ITT intention to treat MG myasthenia gravis MG-ADL Myasthenia Gravis Activities of D. aily Living MM minimal manifestation MMT Manual Muscle Testing PLEX plasma exchange PP per protocol PR pharmacologic remission PSC-MGFA Post-Intervention Status Criteria Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America QMGS Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score TEMS Test to Evaluate Muscle Strength URI upper respiratory inflammation. p < 0.05 p  0.01 For comparisons of tacrolimus versus placebo or if no comparator used for final results versus baseline. p values not reported. Thymoma versus nonthymoma group Specific values not reported.Table 2.
2003 end. Patients were included if they were on corticosteroids and required further immunosuppression or dose reduction due to adverse effects. Those with cardiac renal hepatic or pancreatic dysfunction were excluded. Tacrolimus was initiated at a dose of 3 mg by mouth once daily after the night-time meal. The primary endpoint was a reduction in the modified MG score of 3 points or more or any improvement in the MG-ADL score. A total of 19 thymectomized patients on corticosteroids dosage range 535 mg/day with a median age of 47 and disease duration of 12 years were evaluated. Statistically significant findings included a reduction of total MG score at weeks 8 12 and 16 and improvement in MG-ADL scores at weeks 12 and 16. When evaluating total daily corticosteroid dose dose decreases of 21% 9% and 40% were achieved in three patients. One patient required a 33% increase in dose. No other dosage adjustments were reported. Adverse effects occurred in seven of 19 patients which included nonserious hematological abnormalities. Serum creatinine and HbA1c were unchanged from baseline Konishi etal. 2003.A total of 12 patients from the above trial entered into a long-term follow-up study which extended to 88104 weeks Konishi etal. 2005 end.
Overall five patients had a significant improvement in total MG score and MG-ADL scores improved in half of the subjects. Adverse effects occurred in eight patients although most were noted to be mild in nature. One patient required tacrolimus administration be held due to headache and eye pain however the drug was later restarted Konishi etal. 2005.Zhao and colleagues conducted a 24-week openlabel pilot study at four centers in China Zhao et al. 2011 end. Subjects were included based on a diagnosis of generalized MG and steroid treatment associated with a poor response lack of symptom control adverse effects or intolerance. Tacrolimus was administered as a 1 mg dose in the morning and a 2 mg dose in the evening. A total of 47 patients with a mean age of 44.87 years were evaluated for changes in clinical outcomes. At each time point 4 8 12 16 20 and 24 weeks the change from baseline QMGS manual muscle testing MMT and MG-ADL was significantly improved p < 0.0001. Of the 31 patients takingprednisone at study entry 74.2% tolerated a dose reduction at 24 weeks. Adverse effects occurred in 66.0% of patients and included hyperlipidemia hyperglycemia diarrhea and respiratory infection. One patient died from a MG exacerbation during the study Zhao etal.
2011 end. Patients were included if they were on a stable dose of prednisolone 1020 mg/day in the month preceding enrollment and had MM of the disease as per the PSC-MGFA. Use of pyridostigmine was permitted however the dosage had to remain unchanged throughout the study. No acute therapies such as IVIG or PLEX were allowed during the study period nor was the use of additional immunosuppressant agents. There were 80 patients randomized to receive tacrolimus 3 mg nightly n  40 or placebo n  40. The study protocol specified that prednisolone dosage would be reduced by 2.5 mg every 4 weeks as tolerated based on patient MM status. A total of seven patients withdrew two in the active arm and five in placebo leaving 38 and 35 subjects per group respectively. Baseline characteristics such as age disease duration and severity thymectomy status corticosteroid doses acetylcholinesterase AChE use QMGS and MG-ADL score were well matched between the study groups. The primary outcome measure of mean daily prednisolone dose in the final 12 weeks was not found to be statistically significant in the full analysis set however the per protocol analysis reached statistical significance.
Adverse effects were experienced by 87.5% and 80% of subjects in the tacrolimus and placebo groups respectively. Tacrolimus was discontinued in one patient after development of appendicitis and in another patient due to insomnia Yoshikawa etal. 2011.Corticosteroid with cyclosporine failure Two trials were identified which examined the utility of tacrolimus in patients failing both corticosteroids and cyclosporine Ponseti etal. 2005a 2005b. In a small open-label investigation Ponseti and colleagues enrolled 13 patients with generalized MG classes IIIaIVb who had previously undergone thymectomy and were currentlyat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromJL Cruz ML Wolff et al.http//tan.sagepub.com 99treated with prednisone mean dose 33.1 mg/day plus cyclosporine 23 mg/kg/day. Patients were suffering from long-term adverse effects of drug therapy such as obesity hypertension and renal insufficiency Ponseti et al. 2005a end. All subjects were switched from cyclosporine to tacrolimus at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg/day given in two divided doses. Doses were adjusted to target plasma concentrations of 78 ng/ml. Patients were followed for 1 year and were evaluated based on their ability to titrate off prednisone.
After 1 year all patients were in pharmacologic remission per the PSC-MGFA and were able to be completely weaned off the corticosteroid. Statistically significant results versus baseline were obtained for QMGS anti-AChR antibody titers and TEMS. Tacrolimus was tolerated well without evidence of adverse effects Ponseti etal. 2005a.Ponseti and colleagues also conducted a larger and longer study Ponseti etal. 2005b end. A total of 79 thymectomized patients with disease severity class IIbV on high-dose prednisone mean 58.9 mg/day and cyclosporine mean 205.9 mg/day were included in the study. All subjects were similarly switched from cyclosporine to tacrolimus 0.1 mg/kg/day with doses adjusted to target plasma concentrations of 78 ng/ml. Patients were followed for a mean of 2.5 years. Clinical status as per the PSC-MGFA improved at study conclusion with most patients achieving pharmacologic remission. Mean prednisone dose was reduced to an average of 2.4 mg and all but two patients were able to have their corticosteroid discontinued. QMGS was significantly reduced as was the titer of circulating anti-AChR antibodies. Muscle strength significantly improved from baseline.
hypertrichosis acne paresthesias gingival hyperplasia etc. from a baseline value of 96.2% to final visit 35.4% p < 0.001. New malignancies were found in 3 patients after taking tacrolimus for 46 months . These malignancies included one patient diagnosed with metastatic lung cancer who expired within 1 month another case of lung cancer which was treated with lobectomy and a third patient with renal cancer treated with nephrectomy Ponseti etal. 2005b. end. Post-operative thymectomy. Early initiation of tacrolimus in patients undergoing thymectomy was evaluated in an open-label study Ponseti et al. 2006 end. Patients with newonset disease mean 9 months from diagnosis severity class IIIaV underwent thymectomy with initiation of tacrolimus 0.1 mg/kg/day with doses adjusted to target plasma concentrations of 78 ng/ml within 24 hours post-operatively. Patients were followed for a mean of 24.4 months and clinical outcomes were compared between baseline and final visits. Prednisone was discontinued in all patients after 2 years. TEMS QMGS and AChR antibody titers all significantly improved from baseline. The time to achieve complete stable remission CSR was 37.9 months from initiation of tacrolimus.
2006.De novo diagnosis Nagane and colleagues examined the effectiveness of using tacrolimus in patients with a de novo diagnosis of MG Nagane etal. 2005 end. A total of 36 patients were randomized to receive usual care with or without tacrolimus 3 mg/day. Mean time from disease onset was 11.5 and 10.5 months in the active and control groups respectively. Baseline characteristics were well matched in terms of age thymectomy status and disease severity. Outcomes were evaluated after the early 3.75.8 weeks and follow-up phases 1 year and consisted of mean number of rescue treatments and corticosteroid dose. There was a statistically significant reduction in the number of PLEX plus high dose intravenous methylprednisolone HMP treatments but no difference in mean oral corticosteroid dose was observed. After a 1 year follow up there was a significant reduction in the number of treatments with PLEX with HMP HMP alone and oral steroid dose for patients treated with tacrolimus compared with those without. Adverse effects after 1 year were minimal but included one notable rise in serum creatinine to 1.41.5 mg/dl from baseline 0.41.1 mg/dl Nagane etal. 2005. end. Presence of thymoma.
2007 end. Inat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 82100 http//tan.sagepub.comthis trial five patients with thymoma and five patients with nonthymomatous MG classification IIaIIIb receiving oral corticosteroids azathioprine or both were treated with tacrolimus 1 mg 3 times a day for 3 months. Doses of corticosteroids and AChE inhibitors were held constant during the study period however azathioprine was discontinued before initiation of tacrolimus. After 1 and 3 months a statistically significant reduction in QMGS was noted in the thymoma group versus baseline values. The nonthymoma group also demonstrated a reduction in QMGS at those time points but the difference was not statistically significant. The between-group comparison showed a statistically significant improvement in QMGS in the thymoma group versus the nonthymoma subjects. Serum AChR antibody titers were not significantly changed in either group compared to baseline. No adverse effects were observed during treatment Mitsui etal. 2007. end. Discussion. Several small prospective trials examining the use of tacrolimus in the management of MG are present in the literature.
The most common dosing strategies were a fixed daily dose of 3 mg with or without assessment of trough drug concentrations and a weight-based approach of 0.1 mg/kg/day in divided doses with dosage titrated to achieve a trough concentration of 78 ng/ml Shimojima et al. 2006 Nagaishi et al. 2008 Tada etal. 2006 Konishi etal. 2003 2005 Zhao etal. 2011 Yoshikawa etal. 2011 Ponseti et al. 2005a 2005b 2006 Nagane et al. 2005 Mitsui etal. 2007 end. While the weight-based regimen is within the manufacturers dosing recommendations for prevention of transplant rejection the 3 mg dose falls below the FDA-approved dosing range Astellas Pharma 2013. With a lower dose this allows for the potential to minimize or avoid calcineurin inhibitor-induced adverse drug reactions through the use of lower doses while still maintaining efficacy in the treatment of MG.Eight of these trials Shimojima etal. 2006 Tada et al. 2006 Zhao et al. 2011 Yoshikawa et al. 2011 Ponseti etal. 2005a 2005b 2006 Mitsui et al. 2007 although small and uncontrolled showed statistically significant improvements in standardized outcome measures such as QMGSand PSC-MGFA which are considered to be gold standard tools for assessing patients as well as conducting research on this autoimmune disorder Jaretzki et al. 2000 end.
2011 end. Although it is unclear why these results are conflicting it is possible this could be attributed to the relatively stable patient population selected for this trial. MM status was a requirement for study entry whereas most of the other evaluations included patients based on the need for additional immunosuppression or presence of intolerable side effects to corticosteroids. Similarly mean baseline QMGS was lower at 4.7 Yoshikawa etal. 2011 compared to some of the other trials which included baseline values of 7.5 8.7 11.9 and 13.95 Konishi etal. 2003 2005 Tada etal. 2006 Zhao etal. 2011 end. Since patients may have started the trial with minimal disease perhaps there was less room for a positive benefit to be shown in not only the QMGS but also the MG-ADL anti-AChR antibody titer and IL-2 production. Additionally the authors suggest that patients may have begun the study on higher than necessary steroid dosages to control the disease which was evidenced by similar ability to dose reduce the placebo group within the first 20 weeks of the study. This could certainly impact each of these efficacy parameters and mask the true effect of tacrolimus addition.Seven of the trials evaluated tacrolimus in patients unresponsive or intolerant to oral corticosteroids Shimojima etal.
2008 Tada etal. 2006 Konishi etal. 2003 2005 Zhao etal. 2011 Yoshikawa etal. 2011 end. Due to the risk for corticosteroid-induced adverse effects the potential for corticosteroid dose sparing is an alluring option. Of the trials that examined reduction in steroids with the addition of tacrolimus two studies reported high rates 97.5% and 93.7% of complete prednisone withdrawal Ponseti et al. 2005b 2006. However the largest and only randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was unable to detect a statistically significant difference in the primary outcome of mean daily steroid dose over a 12 week period Yoshikawa etal. 2011 end. It is worth mentioning that in a per protocol analysis four patients were excluded due to early steroid withdrawal and statisticalat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromJL Cruz ML Wolff et al.http//tan.sagepub.com 101significance was achieved. It is possible that the duration of follow up was not sufficient to detect a meaningful difference in the primary endpoint. After week 20 mean corticosteroid doses trended upward in the placebo group and decreased in the treatment group.
Also the percentage of patients who were able to reduce their daily steroid dose by 75% or more during the last 4 weeks was greater among the tacrolimus group 67.5% versus 45% p  0.034. These findings suggest that a longer follow-up period may have been necessary to observe a continued divergence in steroid requirements Yoshikawa etal. 2011 end. Although it is disappointing that these findings do not correlate with the other available literature these data still suggest that tacrolimus is well-tolerated and might have a potential role in reducing steroid burden although further research is necessary to confirm this.The long-term effects of the use of tacrolimus for MG management were assessed in several trials Shimojima etal. 2006 Nagaishi etal. 2008 Tada et al. 2006 Konishi et al. 2005 Ponseti et al. 2005a 2005b 2006 Nagane etal. 2005 end. These trials consistently showed positive effects on the QMGS or a reduction in adjunct therapies and followed patients on tacrolimus for up to a period of 5 years. Positive outcomes were demonstrated as early as 4 months with subjective improvements noted after only 12 months Shimojima etal. 2006 Nagaishi etal.
Adverse effects were described as mild or nonserious in many of the trials Nagaishi etal. 2008 Tada etal. 2006 Konishi etal. 2003 2005 Nagane etal. 2005 and three trials did not identify any at all Shimojima etal. 2006 Ponseti etal. 2005a Mitsui etal. 2007 end. Collectively six patients required discontinuation of the drug due to toxicity these reasons included new-onset diabetes mellitus diarrhea appendicitis insomnia and cancer in two patients Nagaishi et al. 2008 Yoshikawa et al. 2011 Ponseti et al. 2005b end. One trial showed new-onset malignancy in three patients treated with tacrolimus yet all patients in that trial received prior therapy with cyclosporine which can also carry a risk of new-onset malignancyPonseti etal. 2005b Novartis Pharmaceuticals 2013.There are limitations to note for all the trials reviewed. A large number of the studies were small including 20 or fewer subjects total. In addition all but one were unblinded open-label investigations which may introduce the potential for investigator bias however this could be minimized due to the objective measurements for efficacy used in many of the trials.
Aside from these factors a major limitation of the data contained in this review is the lack of ethnic diversity. All of the trials were conducted in European or Asian populations. This makes it difficult to generalize the results to patients of non-European non-Asian descent. It would be advantageous to have trials with more rigorous methodology e.g. randomized blinded controlled and stratified according to disease severity to not only solidify the role of tacrolimus in controlling the disease process in patients with treatment resistance or new diagnosis but also to include various nationalities to increase the validity of the results for a broader range of patients. In addition such high quality trials should include long-term follow up over at least 1 year and include a spectrum of generalized MG disease manifestations in order to discern if clinical response varies according to severity of disease manifestations. It is unlikely however that larger trials with highly robust methodology will be conducted due to the relatively uncommon nature of the disease which makes recruitment randomization and blinding of patients a challenge. Conclusion. MG is a debilitating muscular disorder and tacrolimus may have a potential role in its treatment.
Although significant differences were not found in the primary endpoint of the largest randomized controlled trial to date additional high quality research is needed to confirm or refute these findings. Long-term use of tacrolimus in the management of MG appears to be safe.at UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 82102 http//tan.sagepub.com. Conflict of interest statement. The authors declare no conflicts of interest in preparing this article. Funding end. This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public commercial or notfor-profit sectors. Ocular motor dysfunction and ptosis in ocular myasthenia gravis effects of treatment. Aim The optimal treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis OMG remains unknown. The authors evaluated the efficacy of prednisone and pyridostigmine in reducing diplopia ocular motor dysfunction and ptosis in patients with OMG. Methods Review of records from a clinical database from one neuro-ophthalmology service of patients presenting with OMG between 1990 and 2002 excluding those who developed generalised MG within the first month after diagnosis. Institutional review board approval was obtained for this study.
55 patients with diplopia in primary or downward gaze and clinically demonstrable extraocular muscle dysfunction received prednisone. 34 patients who had contraindications to steroids or who refused treatment with prednisone received pyridostigmine only. Over 5 days the daily prednisone dose was increased to 5060 mg and then gradually reduced to 10 mg followed by further reduction as tolerated. The pyridostigmine dose was begun at 180 mg daily and increased as tolerated. Main outcome measures Follow up evaluations performed at 1 36 12 and 24 months detailed the frequency of ptosis and diplopia and the amount of ocular motor deviation in primary and downward gaze. Results The prednisone and pyridostigmine groups were similar for age sex acetylcholine receptor antibody level prism cover test results for primary and downward gaze diplopia in primary and downward gaze and unilateral ptosis. Bilateral ptosis was present in 32.4% of the pyridostigmine group and 10.9% of the prednisone group p  0.02. The prednisone group showed resolution in primary gaze diplopia downgaze diplopia unilateral ptosis and bilateral ptosis in 73.5% 75.5% 85.7% and 98% respectively at 1 month. The benefit persisted at 36 12 and 24 months except for the bilateral ptosis.
The prism cover results improved p  0.003 in the prednisone group only. In the prednisone group four patients had no response to therapy. Among the 51 prednisone responsive patients there were 33 recurrences in 26 patients. 12 patients all prednisone treated had remissions. Except for three patients who developed diabetes no patient developed a clinically significant systemic corticosteroid complication. Conclusion These results suggest that 5060 mg daily prednisone followed by lower doses 10 mg or less has the benefit of resolving ptosis and diplopia that lasts for at least 2 years in approximately 70% of patients. EXTENDED REPORT. Ocular motor dysfunction and ptosis in ocular myasthenia gravis effects of treatment. M J Kupersmith G Ying. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end.
end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. .See end of article for authors affiliations . end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. .Correspondence to Mark J Kupersmith MD Neuro-ophthalmology Roosevelt Hospital 1000 10th Avenue New York NY 10019 USA mkuperbethisraelny.orgAccepted for publication 11 January 2005 . end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. .Br J Ophthalmol 20058913301334. doi 10.1136/bjo.2004.063404Aim The optimal treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis OMG remains unknown. The authors evaluated the efficacy of prednisone and pyridostigmine in reducing diplopia ocular motor dysfunction and ptosis in patients with OMG. Methods Review of records from a clinical database from one neuro-ophthalmology service of patients presenting with OMG between 1990 and 2002 excluding those who developed generalised MG within the first month after diagnosis. Institutional review board approval was obtained for this study. Participants/interventions Non-randomised unmasked therapy was given. 55 patients with diplopia in primary or downward gaze and clinically demonstrable extraocular muscle dysfunction received prednisone.
Over 5 days the daily prednisone dose was increased to 5060 mg and then gradually reduced to 10 mg followed by further reduction as tolerated. The pyridostigmine dose was begun at 180 mg daily and increased as tolerated. Main outcome measures Follow up evaluations performed at 1 36 12 and 24 months detailed the frequency of ptosis and diplopia and the amount of ocular motor deviation in primary and downward gaze. Results The prednisone and pyridostigmine groups were similar for age sex acetylcholine receptor antibody level prism cover test results for primary and downward gaze diplopia in primary and downward gaze and unilateral ptosis. Bilateral ptosis was present in 32.4% of the pyridostigmine group and 10.9% of the prednisone group p  0.02. The prednisone group showed resolution in primary gaze diplopia downgaze diplopia unilateral ptosis and bilateral ptosis in 73.5% 75.5% 85.7% and 98% respectively at 1 month. The benefit persisted at 36 12 and 24 months except for the bilateral ptosis. The pyridostigmine group showed resolution in primary gaze diplopia downgaze diplopia unilateral ptosis and bilateral ptosis in 6.9% 17.2% 50% and 76.7% of patients after 1 month of treatment. The prism cover results improved p  0.003 in the prednisone group only.
Among the 51 prednisone responsive patients there were 33 recurrences in 26 patients. 12 patients all prednisone treated had remissions. Except for three patients who developed diabetes no patient developed a clinically significant systemic corticosteroid complication. Conclusion These results suggest that 5060 mg daily prednisone followed by lower doses 10 mg or less has the benefit of resolving ptosis and diplopia that lasts for at least 2 years in approximately 70% of patients.O cular myasthenia gravis OMG is an autoimmune disorder that causes ptosis diplopia and extraocular eye muscle and orbicularis oculi weakness without dysfunction of other muscles. Previous reports emphasised OMG diagnosis1 2 and development of generalised myasthenia gravis GMG.36 Few studies investigated therapy to improve ocular motor function and restore single vision.3 7 Generally pyridostigmine alleviates ptosis but may be ineffective in resolving diplopia.3 In contrast oral prednisone up to 100 mg on alternate days improved ocular motor function in seven of eight patients in one study8 and alleviated diplopia for 2 years in 66% of 32 OMG patients with lower doses.9Us.
The development of GMG in this group has been described recently.10. METHODS end. The charts of patients with OMG evaluated by one neuroophthalmology Service from 1990 through 2002 werereviewed and the data extracted for a confidential OMG database collected with consent from each patient. The age range was 482 years at the first examination when OMG was diagnosed table 12. No patient had symptoms such as swallowing chewing respiratory or limb weakness or fatigue or clinical examination findings of weakness in the muscles of the lower face or below the neck suggestive of GMG. We excluded any patient with signs of a restrictive ocular myopathy or who developed GMG within a month of diagnosis as a result of use of a different treatment regimen. Patients were not randomised for therapy. Patients with diplopia in primary or downward gaze and extraocular muscle dysfunction were offered prednisone therapy. Thirty four patients who refused or had contraindications to corticosteroid therapy or who had only mild ptosis at the first examination were treated with pyridostigmine pyridostigmine group. Five of the 55 patients in the prednisone group received pyridostigmine mean dose of 120 mg daily.
The medication dose was recorded at each visit without other controls for compliance. No patient received other immunosuppressive agents. One patient in the prednisone group had a thymectomy for a thymoma and was one of the patients who failed prednisone. The prednisone dose starting with 10 mg daily was escalated over 5 days to 5060 mg daily and after 4 days the dose was reduced by 10 mg per day each week until 10 mg per day was achieved. The dose was further reduced by 2.5 mg per day each week in response to controlling symptoms and findings of diplopia in primary gaze difficulty reading or ptosis that interfered with vision. Most patients in the prednisone group remained on a daily or alternate day dose of 2.510 mg. For analysis alternate day prednisone was recorded as a daily dose that was half the alternate day dose for example a patient taking 10 mg of prednisone every other day was considered to be taking 5 mg a day. Recurrences were treated with reinstitution of half of the maximal dose originally given. All prednisone treated patients were prescribed a histamine receptor 2 blocking agent and calcium 10001500 mg and vitamin D 400800 IU daily.
The mean maximum daily dose was 272 mg median 240 mg range 180720 mg and 24 patients received at least 240 mg per day. In the prednisone group including 10 patients switched from the pyridostigmine group a recurrence was defined as the return of resolved diplopia in primary or downward gaze as the dose of prednisone was reduced and failed to resolve with an increase of 10 mg daily. The time from reaching a daily dose of 10 mg of prednisone before a recurrence and the daily dose of prednisone when the recurrence occurred were recorded. A treatment failure was defined as persistent diplopia in primary or downward gaze or ptosis that covered either pupil with the eyes in primary gaze despite higher prednisone doses or if 20 mg of daily prednisone was needed. A remission was defined as having no ptosis no diplopia and normal ocular muscle ductions after stopping therapy for at least 6 months. The baseline examination was performed when treatment was prescribed. At each visit patients were questionedwhether diplopia was present in primary or downward gaze particularly while reading or descending stairs over the previous week. All examinations detailed the presence of ptosis and prism cover test PCT measurement in dioptres for distance primary and downward gaze.
Analysis using SAS 8.2. The descriptive analysis was performed for the baseline characteristics and longitudinal outcome measurements. For subsequent examinations we evaluated whether the diplopia in primary or downward gaze or the ptosis in one or both eyes persisted developed or resolved and if the PCT measurements were reduced. The PCT measurements at baseline were compared with the measurements at each subsequent examination. We devised a calculation which considers that in some patients the vertical and horizontal PCT measurements might worsen or improve independently of each other. We computed a vector determination composed of both the horizontal and vertical measurements of the PCT measurement for each direction of gaze. The comparison of baseline characteristics between two treatment groups was performed using x2 test for the categorical measurements and Wilcoxon rank sum test for the continuous measurements because of the skewed distributions.
The efficacy difference between two treatments was assessed using the generalised equation estimate with the adjustment of baseline characteristics. For the prednisone group the effect of baseline characteristics on the treatment failure remission and recurrence was examined using the linear regression. For the prednisone group the treatment failure no response remission and recurrence data were considered with and without the data for the 10 patients switched to prednisone after failing pyridostigmine. RESULTS end. The baseline features table 2 were comparable between the groups except the pyridostigmine group had more frequent bilateral ptosis p0.02. Compared with the baseline evaluation there was a significant frequency of resolution of ptosis and diplopia and improvement in the PCT measurements in the prednisone group table 3. The pyridostigmine group did not show the same frequency of diplopia resolution or improvement of PCT measurements at 1 month and 36 months. Except for bilateral ptosis the prednisone group had significant benefit for all features that persisted at 36 12 and 24 months. The prednisone group was significantly better than the pyridostigmine group at the 1 month and 36 month evaluations table 3.
The patients in the prednisone group had significant reduction in the mean vector measurement comparing baseline and 1 month for primary gaze 15.9 SD 11.1 and 4.2 SD 8.1 p0.001 and for downward gaze 12.8 SD 8.6 and 3.3 SD 7.4 p0.001. The pyridostigmine group did not show the same improvement in the vector measurements for baseline and 1 monthwww.bjophthalmol.comfollow up primary gaze 17.9 SD 10.5 and 16.5 SD 10.4 or downward gaze 14.7 SD 8.5 and 13.3 SD 7.8. In patients treated with prednisone at 12 months the diplopia resolved in five of 10 patients with diplopia at 36 months and at 24 months in five of 14 patients with diplopia at 12 months. Of the patients withdrawn from prednisone diplopia was absent in 10/17 at 12 months and in 10/16 at 24 months. Of the 61 patients who responded to prednisone there were 43 recurrences in 31 patients occurring at a mean of 5.2 months after the prednisone was reduced to 10 mg daily table 5. There were eight failures in the prednisone group four who never resolved their diplopia and four who had a recurrence as the dose was reduced below 20 mg daily 12 prednisone treated patients 18.5% had remissions.
Two patients in the pyridostigmine group had the diplopia resolve at 1 month. The diplopia recurred in one of the two by 6 months. Because of the onset of diplopia in two additional patients at 1 month the percentage of patients with diplopia was the same as at baseline when accounting for missing data. No patient in the pyridostigmine group had a remission.The 12 month and 24 month results for the pyridostigmine group are not reported owing to a large drop out rate. No patient developed a clinically apparent fracture new onset systemic hypertension or an infection that required hospitalisation. Three of 65 patients treated with prednisone developed new onset diabetes mellitus. DISCUSSION. In the present study less than 10% of patients had ptosis only less than 30% had diplopia only while the majority 64% had both diplopia and ptosis which differs from OMG in children where ptosis is frequent and diplopia is uncommon.12 Combined horizontal and vertical ocular misalignment was most frequent 43.5% but horizontal 34.1% or vertical 22.4% deviations alone occurred.
This treatment regimen also reduces the amount of PCT measured ocular deviation in primary and downward gaze. The immediate and long term benefit also occurred in patients who failed pyridostigmine alone. Prednisone decreased the frequency of ptosis in one or both upper lids from 56.4% to 16.3% at 1 month and to 15.8% atwww.bjophthalmol.com2 years. Our results contrast with those reported for childhood OMG where only 29% of 24 patients treated with unspecified doses of prednisone pyridostigmine or both for an unspecified time improved ocular motility.12 In the current study the frequency of maintaining improved ocular motor and lid function might have been higher if the prednisone dose was reduced more slowly as is recommended for controlling systemic muscle weakness.13 We reduced the prednisone dose quickly to avoid adverse effects. Some benefit was probably gained by the combination of pyridostigmine and prednisone. Our failure rate of 12.3% contrasts with Evolis study where 6/18 33% failed to improve ocular motor function with prednisone 2550 mg alternate day therapy.7 In fact of our eight failures only four 6.1% failed to improve with moderate doses.
Generally thymectomy in patients without a thymoma has not been as the primary treatment of OMG although reports suggest it is effective.1516 As new safer surgical approaches evolve thymectomy may be investigated in OMG.17The remission frequency was 18.5% for all patients treated with prednisone and zero for patients treated withpyridostigmine alone. The remission rate in the pyridostigmine group could have been artificially low owing to poor follow up. Remission rates of 11% in 108 patients4 and 30% in 43 patients2 with OMG who did not generalise have been described without reference to treatment. A review of OMG treatment emphasised the complications of rate of chronic corticosteroid use18 but chronic low dose daily or alternate day prednisone particularly with cointerventions to prevent complications may not result in frequent severe adverse effects.19 20 Our prednisone treated patients had no uncontrollable corticosteroid complications possibly due to the effort to reduce the dose not to use high maintenance doses to accept a degree of ocular symptoms and not to continue prednisone in . patients who failed therapy and the use of daily calcium and vitamin D. There were no clinically symptomatic hip or lumbar fractures.
This contrasts with studies where pyridostigmine markedly improved ocular signs of OMG in 9/13 patients but the definition of improved was unspecified.7 In another report 50% of 14 patients treated with pyridostigmine approximately 150 mg per day had considerable improvement but this term was also not defined.17 In the current study after 1 month of pyridostigmine 50% of patients had ptosis of an upper lid similar to the baseline frequency but approximately one third of patients with bilateral p. tosis had resolution of the ptosis. The pyridostigmine treatment results might have been better but side effects precluded usingTable 4 Comparison of treatment effect on outcome measurements for baseline groups for continuous outcome measurements prism cover testMean SD Follow up completedPrimary gaze horizontalPrimary gaze verticalDownward gaze horizontalDownward gaze verticalNo of dioptres SD No of dioptres SD No of dioptres SD No of dioptres SDTimes months Pred Pyrid Pred Pyrid Pred Pyrid Pred Pyrid Pred Pyrid0 55 34 12.2 12.1 .
No or insufficient data available for analysis For the comparison of outcome measure at follow-up with that at baseline within the same treatment group For the comparison of the outcome measure at follow up of 1 month and 36 months between the prednisone and pyridostigmine groups after adjustment for baseline level age sex and antibody level.Table 5 Various outcome measurements in patients treated with prednisone initially or lateOutcomePatients initially treated with prednisone n  55 % of 55 Pa. tients treated with prednisone any time n  65 % of 65Treatment failure 7 12.7 8 12.3 Remission 11 20.0 12 18.5 Unknown 1 1.8 1 1.5 Never responded 4 7.3 4 6.2 Number of recurrences among responder 0 23 41.8 28 43.1 1 21 38.2 23 35.4 2 4 7.3 6 9.2 4 1 1.8 2 3.1Two patients 3.6% had incomplete or missing data. Age sex antibody level ptosis at baseline were all not significantly associated with any above outcomes.www.bjophthalmol.comhigher doses and we had limited follow up at 12 months and 24 months possibly because of treatment failure. Our conclusions are biased towards prednisone treatment since our goal was to restore visual function as rapidly as possible.
It appears that prednisone given judiciously is a reasonable therapy for restoring visual function in OMG. Long term follow up with measures of patient visual function and safety documentation of chronic low dose prednisone therapy are needed before final recommendations can be made.Authors affiliations . end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. end. M J Kupersmith Neuro-ophthalmology Service of Roosevelt Hospital and New York Eye and Ear Infirmary New York NY USA G-S Ying University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine Philadelphia PA USASupported by the Michael Fischer Foundation. on differences in age lifestyle coincident illnesses and the patients emotional response. Our approach to the patient with ocular myasthenia is to explain the potential evolution of the disease and treatment options including their complications. We institute nonpharmacological treatments and cholinesterase inhibitors and in most patients these provide satisfactory relief of symptoms. In about half of the patients with newly diagnosed ocular myasthenia generalized weakness will prompt institution of immunosuppressive therapies.
Young women are often so cosmetically distressed by their ptosis or strabismus that we are convinced to start steroid therapy. Other indications are bilateral ptosis unsatisfactorily relieved by crutches or tape and bilateral severe ophthalmoplegia. Bilateral ptosis precludes useful vision. Severe ophthalmoplegia necessitates head thrusts to achieve visual refixations and seriously impedes quality of life. Absent these indications patients with ocular MG are best served by withholding steroid treatment. lar requires individualization based on differences in age lifestyle coincident illnesses and the patients emotional response. Our approach to the patient with ocular myasthenia is to explain the potential evolution of the disease and treatment options including their complications. We institute nonpharmacological treatments and cholinesterase inhibitors and in most patients these provide satisfactory relief of symptoms. In about half of the patients with newly diagnosed ocular myasthenia generalized weakness will prompt institution of immunosuppressive therapies. Only in limited situations are we compelled to use steroids for isolated ocular muscle weakness10 and in these cases it is always the patient who demands the treatment.
Other indications are bilateral ptosis unsatisfactorily relieved by crutches or tape and bilateral severe ophthalmoplegia. Bilateral ptosis precludes useful vision. Severe ophthalmoplegia necessitates head thrusts to achieve vi-sual refixations and seriously impedes quality of life. Absent these indications patients with ocular MG are best served by withholding steroid treatment.Accepted for publication October 19 1999.Dr Kaminski is supported by the Office of Research and Development Medical Research Service of the Department of Veterans Affairs Washington DC and grant EY-11998 from the National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md.Reprints Henry J. Kaminski MD Department of Neurology University Hospitals of Cleveland 11100 Euclid Ave Cleveland OH 44106 e-mail hjk3po.cwru.edu.REFERENCES1. GrobDArsuraELBrunnerNGNambaT.Thecourse ofmyastheniagravisandtherapiesaffectingoutcome. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1987505472-499. 2 end. Kaminski H. Acetylcholine receptor epitopes in ocular myasthenia. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998841 309-321. 3 end. Kaminski HJ Maas E Spiegel P Ruff RL. Why are eye muscles frequently involved by myasthenia gravis Neurology. 1990401663-1669. 4 end. Rowland LP. Contoversies about the treatment of5. Evoli A Tonali P Bartoccioni E LoMonaco M.
Acta Neurol Scand. 19887731-35. 6 end. Sommer N Sigg B Melms A et al. Ocular myasthenia gravis response to long-term immunosuppressive treatment. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 199762156-162. 7 end. Oosterhuis H. Myasthenia Gravis. Groningen the Netherlands Groningen Neurological Press 1997. 8 end. Kupersmith MJ Moster M Bhuiyan S Warren F Weinberg H. Beneficial effects of corticosteroids on ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol. 1996 53802-804. 9 end. Bever CT Aquino AV Penn AS Lovelace RE Rowland LP. Prognosis of ocular myasthenia. Ann Neurol. 198314516-519. 10 end. Daroff RB. Ocular myasthenia diagnosis and therapy. In Glaser J ed. Neruo-opthalmology. St Louis Mo MosbyYear Book Inc 198062-71. 11 end. Miano MA Bosley TM Heiman-Patterson TD et al. Factors influencing outcome of prednisone dose reduction in myasthenia gravis. Neurology. 1991 41919-921. 12 end. Drachman DB. Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med. 19943301797-1810. 13 end. Sommer N Melms A Weller M Dichgans J. Ocular myasthenia gravis a critical review of clinical and pathophysiological aspects. Doc Ophthalmol. 199384309-333. 14 end. Adachi JD Bensen WG Brown J et al. Intermittent etidronate therapy to prevent corticosteroidinduced osteoporosis. N Engl J Med. 1997337 382-387. 15 end. Grob D end.
JAMA end. 1953153529-532. 16 end. OosterhuisH.Thenaturalcourseofmyastheniagravis. JNeurolNeurosurgPsychiatry.1989521121-1127. Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia. O CULAR myastheniadistresses. The pa-tients neither seewell nor look theirbest because of ptosis strabismus and diplopia.Agius argues that half of the patients with ocular myasthenia have electromyographic evidence of generalized neuromuscular dysfunction and that most go on to develop generalized weakness especially in the first year. He advocates treating patients with ocular myasthenia and generalized electromyographic changes not only for symptomatic relief but to suppress the immune response. He believes that failing to do somay set the stage for exacerbations and progression.Kaminski and Daroff point out that steroids are less effective in ocular than generalized myasthenia and that when they are effective it may be impossible to wean the patients fromthemcondemning themto lifelongtreatment.Moreover10%ofpatientsgo intospontaneousremission.The benefits of steroid therapy in ocular myasthenia are uncertain whereas the serious adverse effects are not. It is time for a prospective randomized trial.
Do not feel that you need to exclude yourself. Please communicate with Vladimir Hachinski MD DSc Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences London Health Sciences Centre University Campus 339 Windermere Rd London Ontario Canada N6A 5A5 fax 519 663-3982. e-mail rebecca.nottlhsc.on.ca.ARCH NEUROL / VOL 57 MAY 2000 WWW.ARCHNEUROL.COM 7532000 American Medical Association. All rights reserved. Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a University of Georgia User on 06/02/2015. Myasthenia gravis in a collegiate football player. LEDDY J end. J. and J end. G end. CHUTKOW end. Myasthenia gravis in a collegiate football player. M d end. Sci end. Sports Exerc. Vol end. 32 No end. 12 2000 pp. 19751979 end. A 17-yr-old Division I-AA collegiate offensive lineman developed unilateral ptosis shortly after minor head trauma during a scrimmage. The subsequent temporal profile of the ptosis a history of a similar event lasting a short period of time 2 yr earlier and the results of his clinical and electrophysiologic examinations established a diagnosis of very mild generalized antibody-negative myasthenia gravis MG. His desire to continue playing football posed several additional management problems for which there was no published guidance.
Except for residual decreased exercise tolerance he improved symptomatically and experienced no serious adverse effects from the illness or the treatment during his first season despite imperfect drug compliance. His MG eventually came under excellent symptomatic control allowing initiation of a slow taper of the prednisone before his second season. Shortly thereafter he abruptly stopped the prednisone without seeking medical advice. He continued to experience mild left ptosis and a mild decrease in intense exercise tolerance. He decided to forego his senior season of collegiate football after a bout of severe mechanical low-back pain incurred during spring football practice and limited his athletic activity thereafter to recreational sports. LEDDY J end. J. and J end. G end. CHUTKOW end. Myasthenia gravis in a collegiate football player.M d. Sci end. Sports Exerc. Vol. 32 No end. 12 2000 pp. 19751979 end. A 17-yr-old Division I-AA collegiate offensive lineman developed unilateral ptosis shortly after minor head trauma during a scrimmage.
His desire to continue playing football posed several additional management problems for which there was no published guidance. We started him on alternate-day high-dose prednisone therapy with potassium and calcium supplementation and allowed him to partake in conditioning but no contact. Except for residual decreased exercise tolerance he improved symptomatically and experienced no serious adverse effects from the illness or the treatment during his first season despite imperfect drug compliance. His MG eventually came under excellent symptomatic control allowing initiation of a slow taper of the prednisone before his second season. Shortly thereafter he abruptly stopped the prednisone without seeking medical advice. He continued to experience mild left ptosis and a mild decrease in intense exercise tolerance. He decided to forego his senior season of collegiate football after a bout of severe mechanical low-back pain incurred during spring football practice and limited his athletic activity thereafter to recreational sports.Key Words MYASTHENIA GRAVIS SPORTS EXERCISE MUSCLE WEAKNESSMyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune diseasein which both antibody and cellular immunologicattacks are directed against postsynaptic components of the myoneural junction 6.
men and the other in the sixth to seventh decades men. women 4 end. Onset begins below the age of 20 yr in 20% of patients. About 57% of female and 33% of male patients are under the age of 30 yr 4172026 and therefore fall into the age groups participating in many of the major organized sports. Its cardinal manifestation is weakness that usually fluctuates over short time intervals is precipitated or exacerbated by repetitive contraction of the clinically symptomatic muscles and improves with rest. The prognosis depends on the muscle groups involved and the severity of the weakness. In the past morbidity and mortality were considerable 4. Approximately 2530% of patients died from respiratory failure and/or infection 451626. Presumably for these reasons few if any physicians practicing sports medicine or neurology have more than anecdotal experience managing myasthenic athletesan assumption supported by the paucity of reports found from a review of the literature and by personal communication.
We present an instructive case of a young football player that shows how a somewhat misleading symptom led to the diagnosis of MG the effect that the patients desire to continue playing football had on his medical management and how the illness and its treatment affected his athletic career. The subject gave his written consent for personal data to be used in this case study. CASE REPORT. In August of 1996 a 17-yr-old Division I-AA collegiate offensive lineman received a minor blow to the left side of0195-9131/00/3212-1975/3.00/0 MEDICINE  SCIENCE IN SPORTS  EXERCISE Copyright  2000 by the American College of Sports MedicineReceived for publication March 2000. Accepted for publication March 2000.1975his orbital area. An experienced trainer noted no local orbital or obvious ocular motor problems shortly after the injury. Several hours later the athlete developed a painless partial left ptosis without diplopia. The symptom remitted overnight only to recur to the point of complete eye closure the next morning during a scrimmage that did not involve head trauma.
He denied any other current ocular motor ophthalmologic neurologic or general medical symptoms. On close questioning he recalled an episode of transient poorly defined diplopia for 2 d after a left temporo-parietal head injury during high school football practice at age 15 yr. Two weeks later he developed a painless partial left ptosis that lasted for several weeks. A head CT was reportedly negative the symptom remitted completely and he was allowed to return to football. He used a beta2-agonist inhaler infrequently as needed for mild asthma without any adverse muscular effects. His developmental past medical and family histories were otherwise unremarkable.The initial detailed general and neurologic examinations in this very powerful muscular moderately obese height 630 weight 335 lbs BMI 42 kgm22 male were normal except for the following a left ptosis palpebral fissures5 14 mm OD 9 mm OS without any further increase during 2 min of sustained upgaze and a momentary decrease in the severity of the ptosis eyelid overshoot when the patient abruptly looked up after approxi. mately 10-s down-gaze Cogans lid twitch sign 1. An intravenous Tensilon test 10 mg and an intramuscular neostigmine test 1.5 mg had no clear effect on the ptosis.
scle testing and recovered after 510 s of rest. The patient stated that he had recently noticed a progressive decrease in his exercise tolerance during weight lifting and other vigorous repetitive exercises. This symptom took several hours to subside.The following laboratory studies were either negative or within normal limits WBC differential platelets and ESR sickle cell screen serum electrolytes calcium glucose and BUN serum protein electrophoresis TSH total T4 T3 uptake and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor binding antibodies and a chest x-ray. He had a very mild normochromic normocytic anemia RBC5 4.7 mmm23 HCT 5 38.8% Hb5133 gL21. There was no evidence for occult blood loss or hemolysis and iron studies and a hemoglobin electrophoresis were normal. Repetitive nerve stimulation studies at 24 Hz showed decremental responses in theamplitude of the compound motor unit action potentials in the left trapezius muscle of up to 15% in two independent tests consistent with the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. A second study 12 h after the patient finished vigorous weight lifting showed no further increase in the size of the decrement.We made a diagnosis of very mild generalized antibodynegative MG. The patient wanted to continue in the football program.
We then started him on prednisone 60 mg every other day qod and 40 mEq potassium 1500 mg of calcium and 400 U of vitamin D supplements a day. We allowed him to work out with the team but not to partake in contact or games. His strength returned to normal minimal unchanging ptosis and normal exercise capacity within 6 wk. Failure to keep clinical appointments and self-adjustment of medications complicated his subsequent medical management. These led to a reversible relapse after he abruptly decreased the prednisone dose to 40 mg qod and to a delay in initiating slow tapering of prednisone which had been increased to 80 mg after the relapse. At the beginning of the second season he was clinically asymptomatic on 70 mg of prednisone qod with marginal compliance. Bone densitometry by DEXA after almost a year on high dose corticosteroid indicated normal bone density of the radius unable to measure the lumbar spine due to the patients weight. He continued to train with the team during his second year while his medications were adjusted but he did not participate in contact practices or games. In the spring of his junior year he again discontinued prednisone abruptly without seeking medical advice. He remained asymptomatic off all therapy with good exercise tolerance.
Computed tomography of the thoraco-lumbar spine was normal. He remained well off prednisone and played recreational sports. After personal reflection and on the advice of his physicians he did not try to return to intercollegiate competition. DISCUSSION. Injury to the third cranial nerve after blunt head trauma has been reported to cause unilateral ptosis but the ptosis in this setting is fixed and is usually associated with severe head injury 28. Our athlete developed fluctuating unilateral ptosis and excessive fatigability to strenuous exercise after mild head trauma. The ptosis clearly worsened after intense physical activity. This pattern coupled with a history of remitting ptosis 2 yr earlier suggested that his symptoms were the result of a widespread rather than a local process.A clinical suspicion of MG must be confirmed by laboratory testing Table 1. Tensilon edrophonium and pyridostigmine inhibit the enzyme acetylcholinesterase and improve muscle weakness in MG by allowing acetylcholine Ach to interact repeatedly with a decreased number of1976 Official Journal of the American College of Sports Medicine http//www.acsm-msse.orgfunctional Ach receptors. Our athlete did not have a diagnostic response because the dosages we used did not take into account his large size.
An experienced electromyographer should perform and interpret the test results because of the different techniques that may have to be employed to demonstrate a myasthenic response because the point at which a decremental response becomes pathologic varies from one muscle to another and because of the potential for technical errors. In normal muscle the CMAPs show little change in amplitude over many repetitions Fig. 1 whereas the CMAPs in a myasthenic muscle rapidly decrease decremental response Fig. 1 end. A decremental response in a repetitive nerve stimulation test is highly specific for the diagnosis of MG. In the context of his clinical findings the 15% decrement in our patients left trapezius muscle CMAPs established the diagnosis of MG. Another procedure single-fiber electromyography detects delayed or failed neuromuscular transmission in pairs of muscle fibers supplied by branches of a single nerve fiber 4. It is helpful if repetitive nerve stimulation is equivocal but its specificity is limited 4.Serum antibody against neuromuscular junction Achreceptors is found in 8590% of patients with generalized MG 14. Some patients 1020% with acquired MG however are Ach-receptor antibody negative.
Seronegative MG predominantly involves the ocular muscles and has a milder disease course than seropositive MG 1425.This appears to be especially true in male subjects which may be related to the immunomodulatory effects of testosterone 25.Myasthenia gravis may be congenital or drug-induced penicillamine can induce a myasthenic syndrome 4. Intracranial lesions can masquerade as MG or occur in conjunction with it 132128. Usually parasellar tumors or aneurysms these lesions may produce fluctuating ptosis and a positive response to Tensilon. Thus patients with signs and symptoms limited to the ocular muscles may need a neuroimaging study. Other conditions such as hyperthyroidism Graves disease multiple sclerosis Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome botulism Guillain-Barre syndrome amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and progressive external ophthalmoplegia are usually readily distinguished by the temporal course of the illness associated sensory or autonomic symptoms and/or by systemic symptoms not seen with isolated MG 417.To our knowledge there are no published reports on the participation of myasthenic male or female subjects in organi. zed athletics. In part this reflects the fact that MG was often disabling or fatal in the past even with the use of anticholinesterases.
Most patients with MG now lead active productive lives due largely to newer immunosuppressive approaches to treatment. This athletes desire to play collegiate football therefore raised some unique clinical management issues about limitations to his participation in a contact/collision sport for which the available data on exercise in MG 7919 provided little help. These limitations fall into three general categories those imposed by the illness itself those resulting from complications seen with MG and those due to current therapy for MG.Complications and certain associated conditions of MG may limit sports participation. Not only will athletes with decremental strength be unable to maintain required activities at an optimal level throughout the game but also weakened muscles may predispose them to soft tissue and orthopedic injuries. A thermogenic or Walker effect described by Dr. Mary Walker in 1938 is the delayed appearance of weakness in a muscle distant from those being exercised 27a problem which when present further complicates training and sustained competition. Dr end. Walker theorized that myasthenics release a circulating curarelike substance during anaerobic exercise causing weakness in remote muscles.
Our patients pronounced postexercise ptosis and proximal muscle weakness are classic examples of the Walker phenomenon. Proximal upper and lower extremity muscle atrophy 16 and weak respiratory muscles 16 could limit exercise tolerance. Myasthenics have a greater incidence of several neoplastic and immune disorders. Thymic tumors thymomas occur in 12% 4 and are generally associated with more severe symptoms.TABLE 1. Diagnostic tests for myasthenia gravis.Anticholinesterase test Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody titer Repetitive nerve stimulation Single fiber electromyographyFIGURE 1Repetitive nerve stimulation results in normal A and myasthenic B muscle. In normal muscle the compound muscle action potentials CMAPs show little change in amplitude over many repetitions. In a myasthenic muscle the CMAPs rapidly decrease with repetitive stimulation decremental response Mv millivolts.MYASTHENIA GRAVIS AND SPORTS Medicine  Science in Sports  ExerciseT 1977Hypothyroidism occurs in 38% of patients and may aggravate myasthenic weakness 4. Myasthenics also have a greater incidence of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus both of which would limit physical activity.Current therapy for MG could significantly impact on sports participation.
Side effects include gastrointestinal hyperactivity excessive oral and upper airway secretions and bradycardia 12. Surgical thymectomy is used for its therapeutic effect or to prevent the spread of a thymoma. It is recommended that patients with generalized MG between puberty and age 60 undergo thymectomy 2022. The benefits of thymectomy however are usually delayed for months to years after surgery yet about a third of patients enter remission and approximately 50% will improve so that immunosuppressives can be reduced or eliminated 3520. Why thymectomy is effective is unclear. Altered thymic myoid cells may be the source of autoimmunity in myasthenia 420. Removal of the thymus may thus eliminate a source of continued antigenic stimulation or it may remove a reservoir of acetylcholine receptor antibody secreting B-lymphocytes 4. Clinical improvement after thymectomy is directly related to the extent of resection of the thymus 412. Cervical mediastinoscopy produces less operative morbidity but median sternotomy with cervical exploration is the procedure of choice because it removes the most thymic tissue 412. Healing of the sternotomy would limit participation in contact/collision sports for 612 wk after surgery.
Prednisone is the most widely used and most effective but also has the most side effects 410. Generally the dose starts at 1520 mg per day gradually increasing to 60 mg per day and gradually changing to alternate-day therapy 4. Glucocorticoids can produce a myopathy involving predominantly the proximal limb muscles 10 but on an alternateday regimen and through regular exercise our athlete maintained excellent muscle strength and endurance and had no orthopedic problems until he developed mechanical low-back pain during a sprint. Though alternate-day glucocorticoids have been shown to reduce bone mass in adolescents 23 and can increase the risk for fracture especially of the trabecular bone-rich vertebral spine 10 our athlete did not have a vertebral compression fracture. Testosterone deficiency is a cause of osteoporosis and serum testosterone is reduced in men taking glucocorticoids chronically 10. It is therefore reasonable to replace testosterone in men on chronic glucocorticoids who have low serum levels provided blood lipids are monitored closely 10. NCAA prohibitions on the use of anabolic agents might however pose problems for athletes requiring testosterone therapy 15. As opposed to anabolic steroids the NCAA has no restrictions on the use of oral glucocorticoid 15.
He was able to maintain an intense regimen of weight-bearing exercise StairMaster which is a primary preventive measure for steroid-induced myopathy and osteoporosis 1011. Nevertheless there are no data on the effectiveness of these measures in preventing fractures in the setting of chronic glucocorticoid excess and no studies of glucocorticoid-dependent athletes in contact/collision sports.Sports physicians must make several decisions when faced with a myasthenic athlete. Should the athlete be allowed to participate at all If so what modifications in training and competition will be required Depending on the medical regimen what observations will be necessary to be sure that he/she is in optimal competitive condition and not suffering from the side effects outlined above What is the role of each member of the sports medicine team primary and/or team physician specialist physician athletic trainer and coach in the management of the myasthenic athlete There are unf. ortunately no research data to answer these questions thus each case must be addressed individually.Whether a myasthenic athlete can participate in an organized sport will necessarily depend on the severity of the disease and the physical demands of the sport.
Issues to consider include any debilitating Walker effect the particular muscle groups involved the potential for injury to the athlete and to other participants if certain muscle groups slowly weaken during repetitive use assessment of vital functions e.g. pulmonary function swallowing that may worsen with exercise and environmental conditions MG may be exacerbated by the heat 12. For example diplopia treated with an eye patch might not bother a swimmer but it could be a real problem for a tennis player or a wide receiver. Exercise during the summer might need to be scheduled during the early morning or evening to avoid the extremes of heat and humidity. Respiratory insufficiency difficulty swallowing or decremental weakness of the cervical muscles would eliminate training for and participation in most sports except perhaps those of very low aerobic and anaerobic intensity golf bowling cricket curling etc..This case was presented to educate health professionals about myasthenia gravis its effect on the athletic career of a collegiate athlete and to discuss some of the general implications of myasthenia in athletes. Formerly fatal or disabling myasthenia gravis can now be treated effectively allowing patients to lead more normal lives.
Physical activity and participation in organized sports should be encouraged for those myasthenics who want to participate and who have the physical capacity to do so. More specific recommendations concerning the benefits and risks of physical activity and sports participation in myasthenia gravis await the systematic observation of a population of active myasthenics over time.1978 Official Journal of the American College of Sports Medicine http//www.acsm-msse.orgWe gratefully acknowledge Howard Lippes M.D. Mike Rielly A.T.C. Mike Lahood M.D. and Donald Tingley M.D. for their assistance with technical details and manuscript review.This paper was presented in p. art at the 1997 Annual Meeting of the American College of Sports Medicine Denver CO.Address for correspondence John Leddy M.D. FACSM University Sports Medicine 160 Farber Hall 3435 Main St. Buffalo NY 14214 E-mail leddybuffalo.edu.REFERENCES1. ADAMS R end. D. and M end. VICTOR end. Disorders of ocular movement and pupillary function. InPrinciples of Neurology. New York NY McGraw-Hill p. 188 1981 end. 2 end. AMERICAN ACADEMY of PEDIATRICS. Committee on Sports Medicine and Fitness medical conditions affecting sports participation.Pediatrics 94757760 1994. 3 end. BUCKINGHAM J. M. F end. M end. HOWARD JR. P. E end.
The value of thymectomy in myasthenia gravis a computer-assisted matched study.Ann. Surg.184453458 1976. 4 end. DRACHMAN D. B end. Myasthenia gravis.N. Engl end. J end. Med.3301797 1810 1994. 5 end. GROB D. N. G end. BRUNNER T. NAMBA  end. The course of myasthenia gravis and therapies affecting outcome.Ann. N end. Y end. Acad end. Sci end. 505472499 1987. 6 end. HOPKINS L. C end. Clinical features of myasthenia gravis.Neurol. Clin end. North Am.12243261 1994. 7 end. IONASESCU V. and N. LUCA end. Studies of carbohydrate metabolism in myasthenia gravis in conditions of ischaemic exercise.Acta Neurol. Scand.42244254 1966. 8 end. KEESEY J end. C end. Electrodiagnostic approach to defects of neuromuscular transmission.Muscle Nerve12613626 1989. 9 end. KOLINS J. and GILROY J. Serum enzyme levels in patients with myasthenia gravis after aerobic and ischaemic exercise.J. Neurol end. Neurosurg. Psychiatry353440 1972.10. LUKERT B end. P. and L end. G end. RAISZ end. Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis pathogenesis and management.A n. Int end. Med.112352364 1990. 11 end. MARCUS R end. Physical activity and regulation of bone mass. In Primer on the Metabolic Bone Diseases and Disorders of Mineral Metabolism M. J end. Favus Ed. Philadelphia Lippincott-Raven 1996 pp. 254256 end. 12 end.
M end. Treatment of acquired myasthenia gravis.Neurology 48Suppl. 5S46S51 1997. 13 end. MOORTHY G. M. M end. BEHRENS D. B end. DRACHMAN et al. Ocular pseudomyasthenia or ocular myasthenia plus.Neurology 39 11501154 1989. 14 end. MOSSMAN S. A. VINCENT and J. NEWSOM-DAVIS. Myasthenia gravis without acetycholine-receptor antibody a distinct disease entity. Lanceti116118 1986.15. NCAA DRUG EVALUATION and DRUG TESTING PROGRAM. Pamphlet end. NCAA July 1996. 16 end. OOSTERHIUS H. J end. G end. H end. The natural course of myasthenia gravis a long term follow up study.J. Neurol end. Neurosurg. Psychiatry 5211211127 1989. 17 end. OOSTERHIUS H. J end. G end. H end. Differential diagnosis. InMyasthenia Gravis. New York Churchill Livingstone 1984 pp.159174. 18 end. PATTEN B end. M end. A hypothesis to account for the Mary Walker phenomenon.Ann. Int end. Med.82411415 1975. 19 end. PEASE W end. S. and F end. P end. LAGATTUTA. Exacerbation of a case of myasthenia gravis during therapeutic electric stimulation.Arch. Phys end. Med end. Rehabil.68568570 1987. 20 end. PENN A end. S end. Thymectomy of myasthenia gravis. InHandbook of Myasthenia Gravis and Myasthenic SyndromesR. P end. Lisak Ed. New York Marcel Dekker 1994 pp. 321339 end. 21 end. RAGGE N end. K. and W end. F end. HOYT end.
22 end. ROWLAND L. P end. General discussion on therapy in myasthenia gravis.Ann. N end. Y end. Acad end. Sci.505607609 1987. 23 end. RUEGSEGGER P. T. C end. MEDICI and M. ANLIKER end. Corticosteroidinduced bone loss a longitudinal study of alternate day therapy in patients with bronchial asthma using quantitative computed tomography.Eur. J end. Clin end. Pharmacol.25615620 1983. 24 end. SANDERS D. B end. The electrodiagnosis of myasthenia gravis.Ann. N end. Y end. Acad end. Sci.505539556 1987. 25 end. SANDERS D. B. P end. I end. ANDREWS J. F end. HOWARD and J. M end. MASSEY end. Seronegative myasthenia gravis.Neurology 48Suppl. 5S40 S45 1997. 26 end. SIMPSON J. F. M end. R end. WESTBERY and K. R end. MAGEE end. Myasthenia gravis an analysis of 295 cases.Acta Neurol. Scand end. Suppl.231 1966. 27 end. WALKER M end. B end. Myasthenia gravis case in which fatigue of forearm muscles could induce paralysis of extraocular muscles. Proc end. R end. Soc end. Med.31722 1938. 28 end. WALTER K end. A. N end. J end. NEWMAN and S. LESSELL end. Oculomotor palsy from minor head trauma initial sign of intracranial aneurysm. Neurology44148150 1994.MYASTHENIA GRAVIS AND SPORTS Medicine  Science in Sports  ExerciseT 1979.
This study evaluated the clinical efficacy of leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone 0.25 mg/kg/day for treatment of myasthenia gravis MG. We enrolled 32 MG patients treated with leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone. In the control group 14 patients were treated with low-dose prednisone. Improvement in MG composite MGC score of  3 points from enrollment to 12-week follow-up indicated that the treatment was effective. In the leflunomide combined lowdose prednisone group the median of MGC score at the time of enrollment was 8.5 points. After 12 weeks the MGC score dropped to four points. There was statistically significant difference in MGC score before and after treatment p < 0.001. In the low-dose prednisone group also followed up for 12 weeks the median of MGC score of the patients decreased from 7 to 4 points and the change was not statistically significant p  0.05. In the leflunomide combined low-dose prednisone group the improvement of clinical symptoms occurred mainly in the first 4 weeks and the last 4 weeks. Relatively the decline of the score was mostly seen during the first 8 weeks in the low-dose prednisone group.
However there is no significant difference in the effective rate between AChR-Ab-positive and -negative groups Fishers Exact Test p  0.625. No serious side effects were observed in any of the subjects. Leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone rapidly improved the clinical symptoms of patients with MG. It may be a promising treatment for gMG. Vol.0123456789Keywords Myasthenia gravis Leflunomide Low-dose prednisone Treatment. Abbreviations. MG Myasthenia gravis MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGC score Myasthenia gravis composite score QMG score Quantitative myasthenia gravis scoreADL score Activities of daily living score oMG Ocular myasthenia gravis gMG Generalized myasthenia gravis AChR-Ab Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody. Introduction. Corticosteroids are the first-line treatment for immune regulation of myasthenia gravis MG. Prednisone is one of the most commonly used corticosteroids in the clinic. Treatment with high doses of prednisone 0.75 mg1 mg/kg/day results in a significantly increased risk of side effects such as infections high blood pressure diabetes and osteoporosis. Therefore long-term use of high-dose prednisone should be avoided and clinicians often administer low-dose prednisone to reduce side effects.
In these cases treatment with immunosuppressants in combination with low-dose prednisone has been shown to be effective and to reduce the risk of side effects.Xin Huang and Li Qiu contributed equally to this work. Hao Ran baseballman81msn.com Weibin Liu liuwbmail.sysu.edu.cnXin Huang huangx82mail.sysu.edu.cn1 Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory ofDiagnosis andTreatment ofMajor Neurological Diseases National Key Clinical Department andKey Discipline ofNeurology Department ofNeurology The First Af. filiated Hospital Sun Yat-Sen University No. 58 Zhongshan Road 2 Guangzhou510080 China2 School ofPharmaceutical Sciences Sun Yat-Sen University No. 135 West Xingang Road Guangzhou510275 China1 3Combined administration of prednisone and immunosuppressants has been associated with higher remission and cure rates which highlights the importance of choice of immunosuppressants for treatment of MG. Leflunomide is an isoxazole immunomodulator that exerts anti-proliferation activity. The main mechanism of action of leflunomide is inhibition of dihydroorotase dehydrogenase which is the key enzyme in pyrimidine synthesis 1. Therefore leflunomide can interfere with lymphocyte proliferation.
Crucially leflunomide exhibits low toxicity 3. Leflunomide is currently using in adults and children active rheumatoid arthritis 4. Previous research has shown that experimentally induced myasthenia gravis was prevented by leflunomide in rats 5. In 2016 we reported that 15 prednisone-dependent patients with MG were treated with leflunomide 20 mg/day for 6 months. After 6 months 12 80% patients exhibited improved symptoms and 11 of these 12 patients showed quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG scores reductions of more than 3 which indicated significant improvement of symptoms. None of these patients experienced serious adverse reactions 6. The purpose of the present study was to further characterize the clinical efficacy and time to onset of the therapeutic effects of leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone for treatment of MG. Materials andmethods. Patients with were screened from November 2017 to August 2019 at the Department of Neurology First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. The inclusion criteria were patients with MG with a clear clinical diagnosis age  15 years MGC scores  3 points prior to treatment and no use of corticosteroids and other immunosuppressants for the prior 3 months.
ng to the inclusion and exclusion criteria 32 patients were enrolled in the leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone group. 14 patients who met the criteria but did not agree to use immunosuppressants were enrolled in the low-dose prednisone group. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the First AffiliatedHospital of Sun Yat-sen University and all selected participants provided informed consent.Patients in the leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone group received 0.25 mg/kg/day of prednisone and 20 mg/day of leflunomide. Patients in the prednisone group received 0.25 mg/kg/day of prednisone. These doses were administered for 12 weeks. In addition both groups of patients were treated with pyridostigmine.At enrollment basic information including name gender first symptoms course of disease antibody results and thymus surgery were recorded in detail. Patients were classified according to the MGFA classification system prior to treatment. Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody AChR-Ab was measured using ELISA RSR Ltd Cardiff UK AChR-Ab titer >0.45 nmol/L was considered to be positive.
At each follow-up patients received MGC score QMG score and MG activities of daily living MGADL score. Comparison of MGC scores before and after 12 weeks of treatment was used to determine treatment efficacy. Specifically after 12 weeks of treatment improvement in MGC scores  3 points is considered effective. MGC score has been proved to be a reliable and valid instrument for measuring clinical status of patients with MG 7. Clinical scores including ADL QMG and MGC score were completed by the same physician. The physician is not responsible for the treatment of the patient only for clinical scoring. Ethic end. This study was approved by the appropriate ethics committees in the first affiliated hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. All participants gave informed consent prior to enrollment in the study. Statistical analysis. SPSS for Windows 22.0 was used for data analysis. Welchs corrected unpaired t/rank sum test was used for comparisons between groups paired t/rank sum test was used for comparisons between means before and after treatment and Spearman correlation analysis was used to determine associations between two variables. p<0.05 were considered statistically significant. Graphs were generated using GraphPad Prism 6 software.1 3. Results end. end.
The group that received leflunomide with low-dose prednisone included 32 patients and the prednisone group included 14 patients. The detailed basic information and clinical characteristics of these patients are shown in Table1.Clinical followup ofpatients treated withprednisone14 patients with MG were included in the low-dose prednisone group. The median of MGC scores at enrollment was 7 and the median of MGC scores at the final followup was 4 p  0.05. The change in the MGC scores was not statistically significant Fig.1a. As shown in Fig.1b the MGC scores dropped continuously within 8weeks. But there was no significant change in MGC scores from 8 to 12weeks. 42.9% of patients 6/14 were considered effectively treated at 12-week follow-up  3 points improvement in MGC scores.Clinical followup ofpatients treated withleflunomide combined withlowdose prednisoneA total of 35 patients with MG were included in the leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone group. Three patients were lost to follow-up and 32 were followed up for 12 weeks. The median MGC score at enrollment was 8.5 and the median MGC scores dropped significantly to 4 at the 12-week follow-up. There was statistically significant difference in MGC scores before and after treatment Fig.1c.
There was no significant change in MGC scores from 4 to 8 weeks but the MGC scores dropped significantly from 8 to 12 weeks. This trend was significantly different from that of the prednisone group Fig.1b d. In the group 59.4% of patients 19/32 were considered effectively treated at 12-week follow-up 3 points improvement in MGC scores.Meanwhile the patients were followed up every 4 weeks for QMG score and MG-ADL score. The QMG scores and MG-ADL scores of the patients decreased significantly after 12 weeks of treatment p<0.001 Fig.2. The declines in the two scores were synchronized Fig.3a. When we analyzed ocular MGoMG patients and generalized MGgMG patients separately we found that theQMG scores and MG-ADL scores trends of oMG patients were not completely consistentFig.3b c.Of the 32 patients enrolled 27 were positive for AChRAb 84.4%. In patients with positive AChR-Ab the effective rate is 55.6% 15/27. In patients with negative AChR-Ab the effective rate is 80% 4/5. There is no significant difference in the effective rate between the two groups Fishers Exact Test p  0.625. We further analyzed the relationship between therapeutic effect and AChR-Ab titer. Therapeutic effect and AChR-Ab titer were not significantly correlated r2  0.122.
Of the 13 patients who did not have thymectomy 8 were effective. There was no significant difference in effectiveness between the two groups 2 test p  0.837.The treatment effects in patients with different types of MGFA are summarized in Table2. As shown in Table2 the rate of effectiveness in gMG patients significantly higher than that in oMG patients 2 test p  0.036.We monitored patients for adverse effects throughout the study. Four patients did report minor side effects. Specifically three patients had diarrhea and one had alopecia. All of these side effects have been reported in previous clinical trials of leflunomide and are transient 8 9. Liver function kidney function white blood cell red blood cell and platelet count were tested at each follow-up. During the assessments liver function kidney function white blood cell red blood cell and platelet count of the patients tested as normal. No serious side effects were observed in any of the subjects. Discussion. Corticosteroids and immunosuppressive agents are commonly used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. Oral corticosteroids are considered the first-line medication in treatment guidelines of different countries with treatment efficacy up to 8090% 10. However high-dose use of corticosteroids can cause many side effects.
Azathioprine is considered a first-line option and can be used in combination with corticosteroids for treatment of MG 11. However side effects of Azathioprine such as bone marrow suppression septic shock and gonadal suppression cannot be ignored and it takes a long time for Azathioprine to take effect 15months. Cyclophosphamide a corticosteroid reducing agent 12 13 is associated with a high incidence of serious side effects 14. Therefore cyclophosphamide is not considered a first-line1 3treatment option for MG. Although evidence from RCTs is lacking oral MTX may be considered as a steroid-sparing agent in patients with generalized MG who have not tolerated or responded to steroid-sparing agents 15. However methotrexate is not effective in the majority of Chinese patients. Previous studies have shown that rituximab may be a promising drug for treatment of refractory MG 16 17. However rituximab is expensive which has limited clinical use. Seeking safer and more effective immunosuppressives has become a prominent goal of MG research.Our team has been working on the application of leflunomide on MG patients since 2012 American Society of Clinical Research Network ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT01727193 Register.
59.4% of the patients in leflunomide combined with prednisone group had experienced significant improvements in symptoms. Significant effects of leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone were observed in the first 4weeks as evidenced by decreased MGC scores. No change was observed from 4 to 8weeks after which MGC scores again decreased from 8 to 12weeks. Meanwhile we also observed that the MGC scores of the low-dose prednisone group dropped continuously within 8weeks. But there was no significant change in MGC scores from 8 to 12weeks. Generally prednisone typically require 26weeks to induce1 3significant improvements in the treatment of MG 15. The results of our study with low-dose prednisone are consistent with previous reports. However the changes of MGC scores in leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone group were discontinuous. These results indicated that improvement of clinical symptoms in the first 4weeks was most likely due to the effects of prednisone and the significant improvement in the last 4weeks was likely due to leflunomide.
The therapeutic effects of azathioprine are generally significant after 1year of administrationand the effects of azathioprine can only be observed after 6months of clinical observation. Cyclophosphamide typically induces therapeutic effects following a cumulative dose of at least 6g and effects are typically not observed until 15weeks with a dosing regimen of 0.4g per week 18. In comparison leflunomide is a fast-acting immunosuppressive agent in the treatment of MG.As shown in Fig.3b we found that the QMG scores and MG-ADL scores trends of oMG patients were not completely synchronized. This is not unexpected. Clinically we found that oMG patients had no diplopia when their eyeballs were completely immobile so the MG-ADL scores was low. When the symptoms of patients improved after treatment the eyeball could be rotated and diplopia might occur while the MG-ADL scores would increase. The MGC score can take into account the objective examination of the doctor and the subjective feelings of the patient.We showed that patients with gMG were more effective to leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone than patients with oMG. This effect was also observed in response to treatment with tacrolimus which may allow for prednisone dose reduction in patients with gMG 19.
The results indicated that the efficacy rate of tacrolimus was 68.2%. Furthermore in 36 patients with intractable MG 0.1mg/kg/day of tacrolimus1 3was associated with a 66.67% efficacy rate and patients with the systemic type improved most significantly 20. However six patients experienced adverse drug reactions and were removed from the study. In contrast no patients experienced significant adverse reactions in our previous two clinical trials of leflunomide.The results of the present study showed that the therapeutic effects of leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone were not associated with pre-treatment AChR-Ab titer. AChR-Ab titer was once considered a promising avenue to study the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. However therapeutic strategies that targeted autoantibodies in patients with MG were not effective which indicated that MG may involve cellular immunity or more complex immune dysfunction 21. Conclusion.
Center For Major Neurological Disease Treatment Guangdong Provincial Translational Medicine Innovation Platform for Diagnosis and Treatment of Major Neurological Disease Guangdong Provincial Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases.Author contributions XH participated in the diagnosis and treatment of most cases contributed in data entry statistical analysis manuscript writing and submission. LQ contributed significantly to the database development data processing and case follow-up. YL collection of data technical help. WY collection of data technical help. CO case follow-up collection of data. HR corresponding author design and conceptualization of the study acquisition of funding. WL corresponding author diagnosed and treated most cases established database designed and supervised experiment conduction data analysis.Funding This study was supported by Chinese NSF 81371386 81620108010 the Clinic Study of 5010 Plan Sun Yat-sen University 2010003 Guangdong basic and Applied Basic Research Fund 2020A1515110909 and grants from the Southern China International Cooperation Base for Early Intervention and Functional Rehabilitation of Neurological Diseases 2015B050501003 Guangdong.
Declarations. Conflicts of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.Ethics approval This study was approved by the appropriate ethics committees in the first affiliated hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. All participants gave informed consent prior to enrollment in the study. All human studies have been approved by the appropriate ethics committee and have therefore been performed in accordance with the ethical standards laid down in the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki and its later amendments.Consent to participate The named authors consent to participate.Consent for publication The named authors consent for publication. Fluoxetine treatment for weight reduction in steroid-induced obesity a pilot study in myasthenia gravis patients. To evaluate the weight reducing effect of fluoxetine on steroid-induced obesity we conducted an open clinical intervention study of 2040 mg/day fluoxetine 24 weeks duration. Thirteen myasthenia gravis overweight long-term steroid-treated patients age 3159 2 body mass index BMI 2954 kg/m  were included. Measurements of weight BMI and routine laboratory tests were undertaken at baseline 12 and 24 weeks. Muscle strength and fatigue parameters were assessed at 4 week intervals.
Mean BMI decreased from 35.8 to 32.2 2 kg/m over the study period. No significant side effects were noted. We conclude that patients suffering from steroid-induced obesity respond to fluoxetine treatment of overweight by significant weight loss. 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. /ECNP end. All rights reserved. To evaluate the weight reducing effect of fluoxetine on steroid-induced obesity we conducted an open clinical intervention study of 2040 mg/day fluoxetine 24 weeks duration. Thirteen myasthenia gravis overweight long-term steroid-treated patients age 3159 2body mass index BMI 2954 kg/m  were included. Measurements of weight BMI and routine laboratory tests were undertaken at baseline 12 and 24 weeks. Muscle strength and fatigue parameters were assessed at 4 week intervals. Fluoxetine induced mean weight loss of 7.762.6 kg and 10.362.9 kg over a period of 12 and 24 weeks respectively P0.05. Mean BMI decreased from 35.8 to 32.2 2kg/m over the study period. No significant side effects were noted. We conclude that patients suffering from steroid-induced obesity respond to fluoxetine treatment of overweight by significant weight loss. 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. /ECNP end. All rights reserved.Keywords Fluoxetine Obesity Steroids Myasthenia gravis Weight loss1.
SurgicalLong-term treatment with glucocorticoids in autoim- interventions aimed at achieving weight reduction in these mune connective tissue proliferative and other steroid- patients are often complicated. Therefore it is of medical responsive diseases induces increased body weight in 94% importance to help these patients to reduce weight. of treated patients Bray 1992. Early studies Plotz et al. In myasthenia gravis MG patients suffer from variable 1952 Ross et al. 1966 suggested that steroid-induced degrees of weakness and easy fatigability of skeletal obesity was mainly truncal however recent investigations muscles. Often treatment with acetylcholine esterase demonstrated that at least 55% of glucocorticoid-treated blocking agents is not sufficient and steroid treatment is patients suffer from generalized obesity often antedating mandatory. Patients may require maintenance doses of other side effects Ross and Linch 1982. prednisone for up to 2 years and a subgroup relapse uponThe dire consequences of obesity include among others discontinuation and become steroid-dependent Sanders increased mortality hypertension ischemic heart disease and Scoppetta 1994.
1985 Bray 1985 Brownell 1982 Wadden and Stunkard Fluoxetine is a highly selective serotonin reuptake 1985. Moreover obesity may further deteriorate morbidi- inhibitor that was developed as an antidepressant. Animal ty of the underlying steroid-treated disorders. The results studies Wurtman and Wurtman 1977 Moses and Wurof conventional treatment with diet and exercise regimes tman 1984 demonstrated its suppressing effects on appe-tite and reduction of body weight. In human subjects it was  shown to be safe Zerbe 1987 and effective as anCorresponding author. Tel. 1972 3 5303811 E-mail Achironpost.tau.ac.il anorexic compound in nondepressed overweight subjects0924-977X/99/  see front matter  1999 Elsevier Science B.V. /ECNP end. All rights reserved. PI I  S0924-977X 98 00012-1Ferguson and Feighner 1987 Darga et al. 1991. The kg mean height was 169.364.1 cm. Routine laboratory aim of the present study was to evaluate the weight tests complete blood count electrolytes kidney and liver reducing effects of fluoxetine in nondepressed glucocor- function tests glucose and creatinine phosphokinase free ticoid-dependent MG patients as a model of treatment for thyroxine and thyroid-stimulating hormone at baseline 12 steroid-induced obesity. and 24 weeks were normal.
Mean fluoxetine dose2. Methods was 29.363.2 mg/day. By week 12 mean weight decreased by 7.763.1 kg corresponding to a 7.7% weightMG severity was scored according to Ossermans loss P50.018. At week 24 mean weight decreased from classification University of Virginias modification Pas- baseline by 10.364.2 kg corresponding to 10.3% P5 cuzzi et al. 1984. All patients were treated with high 0.022. Mean body mass index BMI weight in kg divided doses of oral prednisone 6080 mg/day to control by height in meter square decreased from 35.8 to 32.2 2 2muscle weakness i.e. Osserman grade 34. At the time of kg/m normal range 2028 kg/m . Five patients enrolment all patients were graded as 01 on the Osserman achieved weight reduction greater than 10% of baseline functional scale reflecting clinical remission on sustained weight. steroid treatment 2040 mg/day. Each patient remained Weight reduction was associated with clinical improveon a stable unchanged from baseline dose of prednisone ment in obesity related symptoms as immobility dyspnea during the period of the study. and fatigue. In five patients walking distance increased toInclusion criteria for fluoxetine treatment were a 100 meters.
Nine patients subjectively the diagnosis of the disease .10 kg b Failure to reduce reported reduced fatigue. weight under diet c Sleep apnea electroencephalogram Side effects were minimal and transient. Three patients and sleep laboratory proven judged to be related to complained of nausea during the first 3 weeks and one obesity d Severe mobility restrictions due to obesity patient suffered from insomnia during the first 10 days of inability to walk a distance greater than 20 meters e treatment. Six patients reported diminished craving for Dyspnea on minimal effort holding legs in the air while sweets. lying supine and holding arms in the air while lying supine.Patients were included in the study only if they fulfilled 4. Discussion both criteria a and b and at least one of the criteria c to e. In the present study we used MG as a disease model inPatients weights were obtained at baseline prior to which chronic steroid treatment is required to induce fluoxetine treatment 12 weeks afterwards and upon remission. In such diseases steroid-induced obesity results completion at 24 weeks. Routine laboratory tests were in excessive weight gain that may further deteriorate the obtained at these time points. Patients had a neurological clinical symptomatology.
Side effects and/or mented. We evaluated whether fluoxetine could also induce special comments were noted in each visit. Fluoxetine was weight loss in steroid-dependent patients. Our results started at 20 mg/day and titrated to 40 mg/day according demonstrate a marked weight loss during the first 12 weeks to anorexic effect subjectively reported by the patient. The of fluoxetine treatment and an additional modest weight study was approved by the Sheba Medical Center Ethical loss during the next 12 weeks resulting in a mean weight Committee for experiments in human subjects. All patients loss of 10.3% from baseline. No significant adverse effects signed an informed consent form after a detailed explana- were documented. Several trials in the last 5 years focused tion of the study aims possible side effects and benefits. on fluoxetine treatment of nondepressed subjects forStatistical analysis was carried out using the two-tailed weight loss Ferguson and Feighner 1987 Darga et al. paired Student t-test. Data are presented as mean6standard 1991 Goldstein et al. 1994 OKane et al. 1994. The error. results of these studies are parallel to ours. Goldstein et al.1994 randomized 458 obese subjects with no documented underlying disease in a 52 week study to either3.
Maximal and significant weight loss occurred at week 20 and persisted untilThirteen MG patients ten females and three males week 28 in the active drug group. An additional publimean age 48.362.5 years range 3159 were included in cation by Goldstein et al. 1997 further emphasizes that the present study. Baseline mean weight was 106.2611.4 fluoxetines effect on weight reduction is observed mainlyBray G. 1985. Complications of obesity. Ann end. Intern end. Med end. 103 1052in patients with high BMI. Darga et al. 1991 reported 1061.that 45 obese subjects attained maximal weight loss of Bray G.A. 1992. An approach to the classification and evaluation of 12.4 kg at week 29. In 19 obese type II diabetic patients obesity. In Bray G.A. Bjorntorp P. Brodoff B.N. Eds end. Obesity fluoxetine 60 mg/day compared with placebo resulted in a first ed. Lippincott Philadelphia. pp end. 300301 end. median weight loss of 6.5 kg by 24 weeks OKane et al. Bross R. Hoffer L.J. 1995. Fluoxentine increases resting energy expenditure and basal body temperature in humans. Am end. J end. Clin end. Nutr.1994. We used a relatively low dose of fluoxetine as we 61 10201025.have previously demonstrated that a dose range of 2040 Brownell K.D. 1982.
J end. Consult end. Clin end. Psychol end. 50 820 1995. 840.Fluoxetine exerts its weight-reducing effects through Darga L.L. Carroll-Michals L. Botsford S.J. Lucas C.P. 1991. Fluoxetines effects on weight loss in obese subjects. Am end. J end. Clin.several possible mechanisms a altering serotonin conNutr. 54 321325.centrations in the medial hypothalamus Darga et al. Ferguson J.M. Feighner J.P. 1987. Fluoxetine-induced weight loss in 1991 b increasing resting energy expenditure and body overweight non-depressed humans. Int end. J end. Obes 11 163170. temperature Bross and Hoffer 1995 c reducing carbo- Goldstein D.J. Rampey H.H. Enas G.G. Potvin J.H. Fludzinski L.A. hydrate consumption Ferguson and Feighner 1987 Levine L.R. 1994. Fluoxetine a randomized clinical trial in the treatment of obesity. Int end. J end. Obes end. Relat end. Metab end. Disord end. 18 129135.Levine et al. 1987. All these mechanisms may be acting Goldstein D.J. Hanilton S.H. Masica D.N. Beasley C.M. 1997.in concert to promote weight loss in steroid-induced Fluoxetine in medically stable depressed geriatric patients Effect on obesity. In addition the positive effects of achieving weight weight. J end. Clin end. Psychopharmacol. 17 365369.
Pattern analysis method helped patients maintain balanced diet and exercise re- for assessing successful weight reduction. Int end. J end. Obes end. Relat end. Metab end. Disord end. 18 281285.gimes. The results of the present study are limited by the Levine L.R. Rosenblatt S. Bosmworth J. 1987. Use of a serotoninsmall number of subjects enrolled. However to the best of reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine in the treatment of obesity. Int end. J end. Obes end. our knowledge this is the first demonstration of a safe and 11 185190. efficient pharmacotherapeutic intervention to reduce Moses P.L. Wurtman R.J. 1984. Suppression of appetite and reduction weight in steroid-dependent patients. The major advantage of body weight in normal and obese mice by fluoxetine a selective inhibitor of serotonin uptake. Fed end. Proc end. 44 11621166.to weight loss medication is improvement in maintenance OKane M. Wiles P.G. Wales J.K. 1994. Fluoxetine in the treatment ofof weight loss. The average maximum weight loss seen in obese type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetic Med. 11 105110. lifestyle trials is similar to that achieved with medications. Pascuzzi R.M. Coslett H.B. Johns T.R. 1984. Myasthenia gravis However weight loss with lifestyle modifications is re- treatment with long term corticosteroid.
Steroid-treated obese subjects are a cases. Ann end. Neurol end. 15 291298. Plotz C.M. Knowlton A.I. Ragan C. 1952. The natural history ofdifficult group in which to achieve significant weight loss Cushings syndrome. Am end. J end. Med end. 13 597614.and changing life style habits is limited by the basic Ross E.J. Marshall-Jones P. Freedman M. 1966. Cushings syndrome disease process. We call for further larger double blind diagnostic criteria. Q end. J end. Med end. 35 149162. studies to validate our preliminary results in other steroid- Ross E.J. Linch D.C. 1982. Cushings syndrome-killing disease dependent conditions. As there are concerns related to loss discriminatory value of signs and symptoms aiding early diagnosis. Lancet ii 646649.of fluoxetine effect on weight reduction over time we Sanders D.B. Scoppetta C. 1994. The treatment of patients withsuggest that duration of weight loss will be one of the myasthenia gravis. Neurol end. Clin end. 12 343368. outcome variables. Moreover to enhance weight loss in Scheen A.J. Desaive C. Lefebvre P.J. 1994. Therapy for obesity steroid-dependent patients a more integrated approach today and tomorrow. Baillieres Clin. Endocrinol. Metab end. 8 705727 end. including diet and education should be considered. Van Itallie T.B. 1985.
Ann end. Intern end. Med end. 103 983988. Wadden T.A. Stunkard A.J. 1985. Social and psychological conse-quences of obesity. Ann end. Intern end. Med end. 103 10621067. References Wurtman J.J. Wurtman R.J. 1977. Fenfluramine and fluoxetine spare protein consumption while suppressing caloric intake by rats. Science Barak Y. Lampl Y. Achiron A. Sarova-Pinhas I. Elizur A. 1995. 198 11781180.Fluoxetine induced weight loss A pilot study in pospartum women. Zerbe R.L. 1987. Safety of fluoxetine in the treatment of obesity. Int end. J end. Isr end. J end. Psychiatry 32 5154. Obes end. 11 191. end. Thymoma hyalinized by steroid therapy in myasthenia gravis. We encountered a 72-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis and thymoma who received glucocorticoid therapy for respiratory failure before undergoing thymectomy. After the antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titer was normalized and the thymoma shrunk with prednisolone the patient was free from symptoms. On pathological examination the majority of the thymoma type B2 had been hyalinized. Preoperative steroid therapy was effective in stabilizing myasthenia gravis and in inducing apoptosis of both epithelial and lymphocytic components of the thymoma.
After the antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titer was normalized and the thymoma shrunk with prednisolone the patient was free from symptoms. On pathological examination the majority of the thymoma type B2 had been hyalinized. Preoperative steroid therapy was effective in stabilizing myasthenia gravis and in inducing apoptosis of both epithelial and lymphocytic components of the thymoma. Keywords end. Myasthenia gravis prednisolone thymoma thymectomy. Introduction. Several retrospective studies have shown that preoperative programmed alternate-day administration of prednisolone stabilizes the symptoms of myasthenia gravis MG and facilitates a reduction of the frequency of post-thymectomy myasthenic crisis.1 Although care is necessary because the preoperative use of high doses of steroids might increase morbidity such as wound infection the strategy is now widely used. We encountered a case in which steroid therapy was effective in stabilizing MG as well as inducing apoptosis of both the epithelial and lymphocytic components of a thymoma. Case report. A 72-year-old woman first recognized blepharoptosis in 2004 but did not consult a physician. In November 2007 she experienced weakness of the extremities and myasthenia gravis MG was diagnosed.
An initial course of prednisolone 50mg daily was started 5 days after mechanical ventilation was initiated. She was extubated after 2 months and referred to our hospital for surgery where she was prescribed70mg of prednisolone every other day. At that time only slight weakness manual muscle testing grade 4 in flexion of the neck and the iliopsoas muscle remained. The titer of serum antiacetylcholine receptor antibody was 7.1 nmol L 1 on presentation at the previous hospital. It continued to decrease and was within the normal range <0.3 nmol L 1 when mechanical ventilation was terminated Figure 1. Chest computed tomography showed a thymoma in the anterior mediastinum. Its diameter had decreased from 1.8 to 1.0 cm after the steroid treatment Figure 2. The patient underwent a transsternal extended thymectomy and was discharged 7 days later without complications.
Japan end. Email yyoshida-tkyumin.ac.jpat The University of Iowa Libraries on May 25 2015aan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromof prednisolone in 2 years and 6 months since the operation.Histological examination demonstrated that the majority of the tumor was hyalinized although a small part of type B2 thymoma remained on the periphery suggesting that both the epithelial and lymphocytic components of the thymoma had almost completely succumbed to apoptosis Figure 3. The thymus gland was found to be involuted.DiscussionThe presence of thymoma is reported to be a poor prognostic factor for the control of MG and it is rare for the antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titer to be normalized by steroid therapy before thymectomy asat The University of Iowa Libraries on May 25 2015aan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromoccurred in this case.2 Approximately 45% of patients with thymoma have MG and 10% to 15% of patients with MG have a thymoma.3 Surgery is the mainstay of tre. atment of thymoma although it is well known that thymoma also responds well to chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
By histological classification 3 cases of type B1 thymoma and 5 of type B2 thymoma responded to steroids.Glucocorticoids are known to cause apoptosis in CD4CD8 double-positive immature lymphocytes which are associated with thymoma. Recently glucocorticoids were reported to act on neoplastic thymic epithelial cells also.6 In our case the majority of the tumor was hyalinized a finding that supports the hypothesis that the steroid induced the apoptosis of both the epithelial and lymphocytic components of the thymoma. We found a small part of type B2 thymoma remained on pathological examination of the resected specimens after steroid therapy. We have to be careful because a preoperative biopsy was not performed in this case and we are not able to know exactly that the original histology of this thymoma was type B2. However we consider that steroid therapy was effective both for the MG and the thymoma in this patient as shown by the normalization of her serum antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titer and the pathological findings. Funding end. This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public commercial or not-for-profit sectors. Conflicts of interest statement. None declared. Cholesterol in myasthenia gravis.
In vertebrates acetylcholine is released from the presynaptic site and binds to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the postsynaptic membrane. A variety of pathologies among which myasthenia gravis stands out can impact on this rapid and efficient signaling mechanism including autoimmune diseases affecting the nicotinic receptor or other synaptic proteins. Cholesterol is an essential component of biomembranes and is particularly rich at the postsynaptic membrane where it interacts with and modulates many properties of the nicotinic receptor. The profound changes inflicted by myasthenia gravis on the postsynaptic membrane necessarily involve cholesterol. This review analyzes some aspects of myasthenia gravis pathophysiology and associated postsynaptic membrane dysfunction including dysregulation of cholesterol metabolism in the myocyte brought about by antibody-receptor interactions. In addition given the extensive therapeutic use of statins as the typical cholesterol-lowering drugs we discuss their effects on skeletal muscle and the possible implications for MG patients under chronic treatment with this type of compound. Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics 701 2021 108788Available online 4 February 2021 0003-9861/ 2021 Elsevier Inc.
Paz ab Francisco J. Barrantes ca Universidad de Buenos Aires Facultad de Farmacia y Bioqumica Departamento de Microbiologa Inmunologa Biotecnologa y Genetica Catedra de Inmunologa Buenos Aires Argentina b CONICET Universidad de Buenos Aires Instituto de Estudios de la Inmunidad Humoral Prof. Dr end. Ricardo A. Margni IDEHU Buenos Aires Argentina c Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology Biomedical Research Institute BIOMED UCA CONICET Av. Alicia Moreau de Justo 1600 C1107AFF Buenos Aires ArgentinaA R T I C L E I N F OKeywords Nicotinic receptor Myasthenia gravis Cholesterol Immune response Autoimmune diseases Membrane homeostasisA B S T R A C TThe cholinergic neuromuscular junction is the paradigm peripheral synapse between a motor neuron nerve ending and a skeletal muscle fiber. In vertebrates acetylcholine is released from the presynaptic site and binds to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the postsynaptic membrane. A variety of pathologies among which myasthenia gravis stands out can impact on this rapid and efficient signaling mechanism including autoimmune diseases affecting the nicotinic receptor or other synaptic proteins.
The profound changes inflicted by myasthenia gravis on the postsynaptic membrane necessarily involve cholesterol. This review analyzes some aspects of myasthenia gravis pathophysiology and associated postsynaptic membrane dysfunction including dysregulation of cholesterol metabolism in the myocyte brought about by antibody-receptor interactions. In addition given the extensive therapeutic use of statins as the typical cholesterol-lowering drugs we discuss their effects on skeletal muscle and the possible implications for MG patients under chronic treatment with this type of compound. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is a rare chronic acquired autoimmune neuromuscular disorder causing weakness in skeletal muscles 12. The disease was first described by Thomas Willis in 1672 but it was not until the 20th century that significant progress was made to unravel the molecular players involved and the bases of its pathophysiology. These advances include the identification of acetylcholine ACh as a neurotransmitter 35 and the discovery of the first neurotransmitter receptor the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor nAChR see historical account in Ref.
Among these developmentswas the recognition in the 1980s of the influence of the lipid environment on the function of the nAChR protein. Various laboratories including ours characterized the influence of the lipid milieu on the maintenance of agonist-dependent functional states and transitions of the nAChR 812 and disclosed the topology of phospholipids and sterols in the immediate vicinity of the nAChR 1314.This review analyzes some aspects of MG pathophysiology and associated postsynaptic membrane dysfunction focusing on the effects of statins on skeletal muscle in myasthenia gravis. Of interest to the field of lipid-protein interactions in membranes the review is also of biomedical importance given the worldwide use of the statins in the control of cardiovascular diseases and its implications for myasthenic patients under chronic treatment with this type of medication. 2 end. Myasthenia gravis. MG is an antibody-mediated organ-specific autoimmune disease thatAbbreviations ACh acetylcholine ApoE apolipoprotein E CNS central nervous system nAChR nicotinic acetylcholine receptor LRP4 low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 MG myasthenia gravis MuSK muscle-specific kinase PNS peripheral nervous system. Corresponding author.
Alicia Moreau de Justo 1600 C1107AFF Buenos Aires Argentina.E-mail address franciscobarrantesuca.edu.ar F.J. Barrantes.Contents lists available at ScienceDirectArchives of Biochemistry and Biophysicsjournal homepage www.elsevier.com/locate/yabbihttps//doi.org/10.1016/j.abb.2021.108788 Received 18 September 2020 Received in revised form 13 January 2021 Accepted 26 January 2021Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics 701 2021 108788affects the NMJ 21516. The disease is caused by autoantibodies against the nAChR muscle-specific kinase MusK low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 LRP4 or agrin.The NMJ is a peripheral synapse between terminal motor neurons and skeletal muscle fibers which orchestrates striated muscle contraction. MG is essentially a pleomorphic disease of the NMJ 17 with autoantibodies against the various different proteins present in this synapse. Although MG against the fetal form of the nAChR molecule 15 18 in utero pre-natal 19 or neonatal presentations of MG have been reported 182021 this is a rare occurrence MG forms are essentially against the adult  subunit-containing nAChR. The only exception is the adult extraocular muscle which expresses embryonic-type nAChR 22.
Briefly neuronal agrin binds to LRP4 its receptor and activates MuSK which in turn triggers a signaling cascade that culminates in the clustering of nAChRs. Active LRP4 forms a complex with MuSK resulting in MuSK dimerization and activation an event that induces the phosphorylation of this enzymes intracellular kinase domain 29. The subsequent phosphorylation of the nAChR -subunit facilitates the binding of the nAChR cytoplasmic anchoring protein rapsyn and the final stabilization of innervated nAChR clusters at the fully-developed NMJ 30 Fig. 1.Eighty to ninety percent of the autoantibodies developed in MG patients correspond to anti-nAChR antibodies nAChR-Abs 3132. The remaining 20% i present autoantibodies against other proteins of the NMJ like MuSK 33 LRP4 34 or agrin 3335 ii have nAChR-Abs of low affinity/titer only detectable by cell-based assays or iii are seronegative for all known MG antibodies 36.Anti-nAChR antibodies are known to affect neuromuscular transmission producing the typical manifestations of the disease which include skeletal muscle weakness and fatigability 1.
Themechanisms underlying the loss of functional nAChRs from the peripheral nervous system PNS synapse have been known for quite some time see review in Ref. 16 they comprise i the activation of the complement cascade and consequent lysis of the motor endplate 38 ii the acceleration of the internalization and degradation of the nAChR 3940 and iii the functional blockade of receptors at the acetylcholine binding-site 41 Fig. 2.Currently it is accepted that MG is a highly heterogeneous disease in terms of the multiple and highly variable clinical presentations symptomatology and evolution 4243. It is possible to categorize different MG subtypes according to i the autoantibody profile mainly nAChR-Abs or MuSK-Abs ii anatomical distribution of muscle commitment ocular or generalized iii age of onset early onset or late onset iv associated thymic pathology thymic follicular hyperplasia or thymoma when present and v haplotype e.g. association with human leukocyte antigen HLA HLA-B8-DR3 HLA-B7-DR2 or others like APOE 4445 Table 1. 3 end. The muscle-type nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. end. 3.1 end. The central role of the nAChR in the NMJ.
4647 end. They share a common architectural design -a pseudo-symmetric pentagonal arrangement formed by five polypeptide subunits organized around the central ion-conducting pore. All subunits consists of an extracellular domain three hydrophobic concentric transmembrane rings around the pore 48 and a relatively small extracellular carboxy-terminal domain 49 Fig. 3.The embryonic muscle-type nAChR expressed in the developing NMJ and in the electroplax of electric fish electrocytes consists of 2 copies of the  subunit and one copy each of the   and  subunits. In the course of ontogenetic development the  subunit is replaced by the M.L. Paz and F.J. BarrantesArchives of Biochemistry and Biophysics 701 2021 108788subunit concomitantly with the metabolic stabilization of the receptor molecule 50 and changes in ionic conductance that affect both the amplitude and the duration of the single-channel events 51.In adult muscle the synaptic nAChRs are packed at very high densities of 1000020000 particles m 2 dropping to less than 100 particles m 2 beyond the borders of the NMJ 5253. The number of receptors in the synaptic region results from the homeostatic equilibrium between synthesis and loss of receptors through a combination of mechanisms.
Dysregulation of these processes occurs in various neuromuscular diseases including MG where the loss of receptors can be very substantial. 3.2 end. The nAChR in MG. In the early 1970s MG symptoms were believed to be caused by presynaptic dysfunction such as hindrance in the synthesis storage or release of the neurotransmitter ACh 55. The association between the nAChR and MG began with the successful introduction of an animal model system to generate a myasthenia-like syndrome following injection of nAChR purified from Electrophorus electricus electric tissue 56.The experimental animals developed flaccid paralysis and abnormal electromyographic signs characteristic of muscle blockage. In the mid-1970s MG-like symptoms could be reproduced in mice through passive transfer of human immunoglobulin fraction from MG patients on a daily basis up to 14 days 57. The mice showed a typical reduction of the miniature endplate potentials and a diminution of their nAChR numbers at the NMJs. These findings led to the important conclusion that MG was indeed an autoimmune disease where autoantibodies against the nAChR were the effectors accounting for the MG symptoms reviewed in Refs.
The majority of these nAChR-Abs bind to the main immunogenic region MIR of the receptor in the 1 chain 59 which consists of a group of epitopes located around the loop of amino acids 6676. nAChR-Abs can bind to the other subunits of the receptor as well and it has also been shown that MG patients have CD4 T cells able to bind to immunodominant regions in the   and  subunits which may impact on the response of B cells and the subsequent production of high-affinity autoantibodies. 3.3 end. Structural and functional interactions between nAChR and cholesterol. Cholesterol is not only a very abundant component of the postsynaptic membrane in the NMJ but also an essential partner of the nAChR affecting its distribution and several of its functional properties in the PNS 6061 and central nervous system CNS 62 cholinergic synapses. One of the earliest experimental findings of the mutual interactions between cholesterol and the nAChR was the observation of immobilized lipids with respect to bulk membrane lipid in native postsynaptic membranes of the Torpedo electrocyte 13 and the subsequent demonstration that cholesterol-like molecules form part of this protein-immobilized pool reviewed in Ref. 63 end.
Two motifs were identified both consisting of linear sequence arrays L/V-X1 5-Y-X1 5-K/R coined cholesterol recognition amino acid consensus CRAC 6667 and K/R-X1 5-Y/F-X1 5-L/V which is essentially the mirror version of the CRAC consensus motif referred toAb antibody. nAChR nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. MG myasthenia gravis. MuSK muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase. SNMG seronegative MG.M.L. Paz and F.J. BarrantesArchives of Biochemistry and Biophysics 701 2021 108788as CARC 65. The free energy of interaction between cholesterol and the nAChR a measure of the probability of a surrounding cholesterol molecule to interact with binding sites on the receptor protein is higher than  500 kJ mol 1 i.e. more than  100 kJ mol 1 per subunit in the pentamer. This is among the highest observed with other ligand-gated ion channels and G-protein coupled receptors 68. Studies ofcholesterol-recognition motifs in membrane-bound 656870 and soluble 7173 proteins suggest that these linear motifs bear functional relevance in cholesterol-protein interactions.Since one of the pathognomonic signs of MG is accelerated internalization of the nAChR the experimentally observed cholesterol dependence of nAChR endocytosis in mammalian cells is particularlyM.L. Paz and F.J.
Early studies showed that myasthenic antibodies crosslinking nAChR augment the internalization of the receptor at the NMJ 74. Internalization of the adult muscle-type nAChR in CHOK1/A5 cells proceeds via an unusual clathrin- and caveolin-independent actin- Src- and Rac1-dependent endocytic mechanism 40. We have shown that mAb35 binding induced the endocytic internalization of nAChRs in the CHOK1/A5 cell line and in C2C12 developing myotubes 40 which is one of the typical pathophysiological findings in the autoantibody-mediated nAChR disappearance from the NMJ in MG 5475. The connection with cholesterol became apparent in subsequent experiments from our laboratory showing that acute cholesterol depletion with methyl--cyclodextrin significantly accelerated the rate of endocytosis in these cells and even changed the internalization mechanism followed by the receptor 76. Chronic metabolic cholesterol depletion also affects the exocytic pathway of the nAChR 77. Indeed Mevinolin a potent inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA reductase the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis see Fig.
The combined effects suggested that the inhibition elicited by the blockers of cholesterol biosynthesis affected receptor trafficking to the cell surface 77.Cholesterol has been found to stabilize nAChR clusters in denervated muscle in vivo and in nerve-muscle explants and paralyzed muscles adjuvating in the maturation of nerve sprout-induced receptors into their mature pretzel shape 78. Cholesterol treatment also rescued a specific defect in nAChR cluster stability in cultured src /  fyn /  myotubes 79. The main protein components of the postsynaptic apparatus including nAChRs rapsyn and MuSK are enriched in lipid microdomains prepared from wild-type myotubes. These microdomains are disrupted upon treatment with methyl--cyclodextrin and domain disruption is associated with the disassembly of nAChR clusters decreased interactions between nAChRs and rapsyn and a lower degree of nAChR phosphorylation. Cholesterol supplementation of the myotube cultures stabilizes nAChRs in cholesterol-rich lipid domains 78.
This antibody competes with 65% of human antibodies found in MG patients 83. The behavior of mAb35 is thus held to resemble that of the pathogenic autoantibodies found in the human disease. In vitro MG antibodies have been shown to bind divalently to the nAChR apparently via the two -subunits of adjacent receptor monomers and thus crosslink receptors see review in Ref. 16 end. Tagging of live CHOK1/A5 cells expressing adult muscle-type nAChR with fluorescent-labeled mAb35 modified the translational diffusion of the nAChR 84 in comparison to receptors labeled with the monovalent ligand fluorescent -bungarotoxin 85. The antibody-tagged nAChR was found to spend longer periods in a non-diffusing confined state suggesting that a multivalent ligand like the monoclonal antibody does not only crosslink the nAChR but restricts its motion. The effect of the monoclonal antibody was additionally affected by cholesterol in a concentration-dependent manner 84. This is probably due to the effect of cholesterol depletion/enrichment on the partition of receptors in cholesterol-enriched domains lipid rafts and on the viscoelastic properties of the membrane. 4 end. Cholesterol in myasthenia gravis. end. 4.1 end. Apolipoprotein E Apo E.
As mentioned above it has been demonstrated that certain HLA alleles play an important role in the pathogenesis of MG but other non-HLA related loci have also been implicated in MG susceptibility.Given its important role in lipid metabolism and its relationship with cholesterol dysregulation see Fig. 4 ApoE stands out as a possible candidate for association of MG with haplotypes other than HLAs. The APOE genotype is polymorphic in nature with three isoforms and two alleles in each individual resulting in 6 possible different genotypes. Suhail and coworkers 86 reported a linkage between the APOE4 allele and nAChR-Ab positive MG patients but did not find a strong association between APOE genotypes and MG in general. In contrast Sostarko and coworkers 87 showed that the most frequent genotype among myasthenic patients was the APOE2/E4 form 46.4% and not the APOE4/E4 genotype whereas the homozygous APOE3/E3 was the predominant genotype in control patients. The authors also found a positive correlation between APOE2/E4 and a severe form of MG 32.1%. This association between APOE genotypes and disease has also been studied and established for other CNS and PNS pathologies reviewed in Ref.
Since humans expressing the ApoE4 protein isoform display enhanced circulating levels of activated T cells compared to individuals expressing ApoE3 or ApoE2 isoforms one could hypothesize that the genetic susceptibility conferred by APOE2/E4 genes to the development of MG is associated with the modulation of T cell impact on nAChR-Ab generation. It was hypothesized that this is a consequence of the augmented antigen presentation ability by ApoE4-expressing dendritic cells 94. 4.2 end. Cholesterol dysfunction in MG and pleiotropic effects of statins. In MG the autoimmune attack of nAChRs is a complex reaction that goes beyond the crosslinking of the receptor molecules and their degradation by antigenic modulation. Myasthenic serum immunoglobulins of MG patients 39 and purified monoclonal antibodies 40 accelerate nAChR endocytic internalization and the associated complement-mediated reaction affects the postsynaptic membrane with a concomitant loss of membrane components including cholesterol a feedback mechanism that enhances the rate of internalization even further.
Moreover recent bulk RNA transcriptomic studies have demonstrated that antibody binding modifies the transcriptomic profile of the nAChR trafficking upon internalization on its path towards degradation 95. Using differentiated skeletal myocytes the study of Gilhus and coworkers unveiled the presence of a metabolic network involved in cellular homeostasis that is selectively deregulated by antibody binding. The genes that were differentially expressed included pathways regulating the extracellular matrix actin cytoskeleton and myosin but most interestingly also genes regulating cholesterol metabolism in some cases upregulated and in other cases downregulated 95. A high proportion of glucose and lipid metabolic disorders were reported in a cohort of MG patients without glucocorticoid treatment the mechanisms involved were attributed to insulin resistance induced by muscle weakness 96.Statins which have been the most used cholesterol-lowering drugs for the last 30 years are best known for their capacity to affect cholesterol metabolism. They have been used extensively in patients withM.L. Paz and F.J. BarrantesArchives of Biochemistry and Biophysics 701 2021 108788hypercholesterolemia to reduce low-density lipoprotein LDL concentration 9799.
4.Since their introduction in the middle-late 1990s statins have had an enormous impact on the clinical handling of cardiovascular disease making a substantial contribution to reducing myocardial infarction and stroke 101102. Statins are usually classified into two categories natural statins of fungal origin also called type-1 statins lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin and synthetic or type-2 statins 103.In addition to the specific effect of statins on cholesterol mediated by HMG-CoA inhibition these drugs also exhibit pleiotropic effects LDLcholesterol-independent mainly manifested in the cardiovascular system the brain and muscle 104. The pleiotropic effects on the cardiovascular system were experimentally tested both in cell culture and in animal studies reviewed in Refs. 105106 end. Statins were shown to affect the endothelium upregulating the expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase and lowering the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species 107 the vascular smooth muscle cells also by a mechanism involving the reduction in the production of reactive oxygen species 108 and the myocardium by impairing the development of cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis 109.
This combination of effects generates a cardiovascular-beneficial anti-thrombotic state. Since cholesterol is an essential component of all biological membranes the dose of statin needs to be adjusted to maintain the integrity of the plasma membrane and hence the physiological status of the cell yet the pleiotropic effects of statins on other organs or systems have not proven to be as beneficial as on the cardiovascular system 113114.In relation to the effect of statins on the CNS see recent review in Ref. 104 numerous studies show statins to have a direct effect on the reduction of brain cholesterol 115116. The statin-mediated alteration of cholesterol metabolism also influences neural development and synaptogenesis leading to synaptic dysfunction and as a result to CNS disorders 117. In vitro studies indicate that these effects are deleterious on hippocampal neurons and in vivo studies confirm the acute and chronic reduction of cholesterol by e.g. lovastatin in brain membranes of normal and ApoE-deficient mice 118 or hippocampal CA1 neurons without modifying the total LDL or HDL cholesterol levels in serum 119.
These effects may also be exerted on spinal cord motor neurons therefore directly affecting the normal function of the NMJ. 4.3 end. Statin effects on muscle in non-myasthenic individuals. Although in most cases adequately adjusted doses of statins are well tolerated statin-mediated inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase has been reported to produce side effects in skeletal muscle 122123 especially in those patients requiring relatively high doses of these drugs. These collateral effects vary with the type of statin used and involve muscle cramps and myalgias 124 myopathies 125 and in more severe cases rhabdomyolysis 124126. Cerivastatin is one of the statins removed from the market due to these severe dose-dependent adverse effects when administered as monotherapy 126 or co-administered with fibrates 127. In addition to these negative aspects of statin therapy statins are suspected to reveal or unmask underlying neuromuscular pathologies such as latent MG 128. Atorvastatin at doses of 80 mg/day for 6 months did not decrease muscle strength in healthyindividuals but raised creatine kinase levels above normal indicating mild muscle injury even among asymptomatic individuals 129.
4.4 end. Statin effects on myasthenia gravis patients. Cholesterol depletion at the NMJ following statin therapy can affect various aspects of cholinergic neurotransmission and disrupt the safety factor for transmission. This may be a consequence of direct effects normally exerted by cholesterol on presynaptic or postsynaptic membrane proteins or both. A decade ago we elaborated on the homeostatic fine tuning of the muscle-type nAChR 131 and how cholesterol depletion lengthens the nAChR channel mean open time and reduces the amount of receptor molecules at the cell-surface upon acceleration of endocytosis 40132. Cholesterol has been implied in the maintenance of quantal neurotransmitter release and synaptic vesicle cycling at the presynapse and to interact with a pool of NaK-ATPase at the postsynapse 133. Surmounted on the already altered neuromuscular neurotransmission in MG metabolic cholesterol depletion mediated by statins is likely to act synergically and worsen synaptic transmission of the NMJ in myasthenic patients. The severity of symptomatic and asymptomatic side effects of statins observed in non-myasthenic individuals ranges from mild to moderate myalgias and muscle cramps increased release of muscle enzymes resulting in elevated circulating levels of e.g.
In MG patients these symptoms are even more severe and may have an earlier onset see review in Ref. 134 end. Treatment with statins has been reported to worsen the symptoms of MG patients with clinical improvement resulting from discontinuation of the medication 135. Some authors have reported the induction of MG by statin therapy in patients without a prior history of myasthenia 136. The most serious reported adverse effect is statin-induced myotoxicity. This pathology further aggravates the severe symptoms in MG patients generally noted within 12 weeks of commencement of the statin therapy irrespective of the type of statin 137138. The most frequent symptom of deterioration in MG is oculo-bulbar weakness 139.The reported cases of statin unmasking latent forms of MG the observed worsening of the symptomatology in MG with statin therapy the alleviation of the clinical picture with the withdrawal of the medication and the relapse of the symptoms upon re-challenging with other statins 135137140141 provide substantial evidence to support the notion that statins are responsible for inducing myotoxicity in MG or MG-to-be patients.
Oh and co-workers 135 reported that one third of their MG cohort mostly males and older MG patients were on statin therapy. Given the plethora of collateral effects of statins in MG a dietary supplement that reduces cholesterol without the described side effects of statins and alternative cholesterol-lowering drugs e.g. -glucans were introduced in the last decade for the control of LDL-cholesterol and glycemic levels of myasthenic patients 142.The exact mechanisms of statin-induced myotoxicity are not yet clear. Some hypotheses have been proposed reviewed in Ref. 143 including the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction by inhibition of coenzyme Q10 144 apoptotic cell death by alteration of membrane cholesterol 145 muscle membrane alterations due to dysfunction of chloride channel conductance in the myocytes 146 and the triggering of autoimmune processes by immunomodulatory mechanisms 147. The lipophilicity of a statin and interactions with other drugs may also predict their side effects on muscle tissue.M.L. Paz and F.J.
These cytokines are known to favor the humoral response and have been shown to participate in the development of MG 148. Additionally statins appear to modulate the immune system eliciting loss of immune tolerance and production of pathogenic autoantibodies 149. Moreover statins are known to induce autoimmune diseases other than MG 150151. 5 end. Concluding remarks. The various roles played by cholesterol in the formation and maintenance of nAChR clusters in the course of ontogeny its participation in the stability of the adult NMJ and the dysregulation of cholesterol and ApoE metabolism among some MG patients point to the importance of the neutral lipid cholesterol in the physiology and pathology of the peripheral cholinergic synapse. Some myasthenic patients present hyperlipidemias that require cholesterol-lowering therapy. Statins are the most widespread form of therapeutic intervention in these dysregulated metabolic alterations. As discussed in this review extra care must be taken when administering statins to MG patients in view of the multiple side effects associated with this type of drug in the autoimmune disease. Chronic administration of statins is also possibly involved in the triggering or unmasking of MG in otherwise healthy individuals.
Acknowledgements. The work reported here was partly financed by grants from the Ministry of Science Technology and Innovative Production of Argentina PICT 2015-2654 and PIP DD94 and PIP 5205/15 from the Scientific and Technological Res. Council of Argentina CONICET. The figures were created using images from Servier Medical Art Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License http//smart.servier.com. Servier Medical Art by Servier is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License. Beneficial Effects of Corticosteroids. Outcome Measures Diplopia in the primary position or downgaze diplopia and generalized myasthenia gravis after 2 years of follow-up. Results Diplopia which was initially found in the primary position in 29 patients and in the downgaze position in 26 patients was absent in 21 patients at 2 years. Generalized myasthenia gravis occurred in 3 patients at 2 years. Elevated serum acetylcholine receptor antibody levels and abnormal electromyography findings were not predictive of worsening. No patient experienced a major steroid complication. Beneficial Effects of Corticosteroids on Ocular Myasthenia Gravis Mark J.
Design Retrospective record review.Setting Two university-based neuro-ophthalmology services.Patients All 32 patients with ocular myasthenia gravis treated with prednisone followed up for a minimum of 2 years were included. Patients were treated with 1 or more courses of daily prednisone highest initial dose 40-80 mg gradually withdrawn over 4 to 6 weeks. Subsequently in 6 patients 2.5 to 20 mg of prednisone was given on alternate day. Outcome Measures Diplopia in the primary position or downgaze diplopia and generalized myasthenia gravis after 2 years of follow-up.Results Diplopia which was initially found in the primary position in 29 patients and in the downgaze position in 26 patients was absent in 21 patients at 2 years. Generalized myasthenia gravis occurred in 3 patients at 2 years. Elevated serum acetylcholine receptor antibody levels and abnormal electromyography findings were not predictive of worsening. No patient experienced a major steroid complication. Conclusions Moderate-dose daily prednisone for 4 to 6 weeks followed by low-dose alternate-day therapy as needed can control the diplopia in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis.
Corticosteroids may be useful even when ocular motor dysfunction is not normalized.Arch Neurol. 199653802-804MYASTHENIA gravis frequently causes ocularmotor dysfunction thatis resistant to anticho-linesterase agents.14 When the weakness is limited to the extraocular muscles orbicularis oculi and levator palpebrae superioris it is consid ered ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Al though OMG can remain localized35 within 2 years of onset approximately 44%6 to 53% of patients with OMG deteriorate to generalized myasthenia gravis GMG with neuromuscular dysfunction affecting the voluntary muscles of the neck pharynx and body below the neck. Because ptosis dip lopia or both occur in approximately 50% of patients at presentation the clinical his tory and examination cannot be used to identify those patients with OMG who will develop potentially life-threatening dys function67 and require early more defini tive therapy such as thymectomy.
roids910 have been used to normal ize ocular motor dysfunction in patients with either GMG or OMG. However cor ticosteroids have not been generally recommended for OMG because of theSee Patients and Methods on next page From the Departments of Ophthalmology and Neurology New York University Medical Center New York NY Drs Kupersmith Bhuiyan Warren and Weinberg and Albert Einstein Medical Center Philadelphia Pa Dr Moster.Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a New York University User on 06/03/2015PATIENTS AND METHODSA retrospective chart review on all patients with my asthenia gra. vis evaluated between 1983 and 1994 by the neuro-ophthalmology services of New York Uni versity Medical Center New York NY and Temple/ Albert Einstein Medical Center Philadelphia Pa re vealed 32 patients with OMG who were treated with oral corticosteroids and were followed up for a mini mum of 2 years from the time of diagnosis. Prior to our evaluation 27 patients had symptoms for 2 months or less and 5 patients had symptoms longer than 1 year. These patients were consecutive and treated with cor ticosteroids in some cases immediately after diagno sis or after a poor response to mestinon.
The severity of ocular motor limita tion was documented using ductions and the prism alternate cover test.11 At the time of each examina tion the presence ofspontaneous diplopia in the 2 most important directions of gaze primary and downward positions was noted. The GMG disease was diag nosed when the patient developed signs or symp toms of bulbar neck or extremity weakness.Computed tomography of the chest revealed no thymomas in any of the 32 patients. Single-fiber or repetitive stimulation electromyogram responses were abnormal in 6 of 19 patients tested. Levels of acetyl choline receptor antibodies were elevated range 1. 18.0 nmol/L in 10 of 28 patients. The edrophonium test results 2-mg test dose followed by 8 mg for testing lid function and 2-mg doses every 30 sec onds for ocular motility evaluation4 were positive in 31 patients. The 1 patient not tested with edrophonium had marked fatigability of lids and ocular muscles that recovered with approximately 5 min utes of eyelid closure or looking away from the field of action of the affected ocular muscle.Patients were treated with a course of predni sone starting at 40 to 80 mg daily which was gradu ally reduced to 2.5 to 20 mg on alternate days or completely withdrawn over 4 to 6 weeks.
Those patients who were taking pyridostigmine before steroid treat ment was begun all of whom had debilitating diplo pia when receiving pyridostigmine alone continued taking this drug but no patient received other treat ment for myasthenia gravis including thymectomy. Be cause of worsening lid or ocular motor dysfunction 3 to 6 months after starting steroid treatment 17 pa tients some of whom had no steroids had 1 or more courses of daily prednisone which was gradually re duced over 4 to 6 weeks to 2.5- to 20-mg alternateday therapy or stopped. Six patients were maintained with this alternate-day therapy for more than 6 months.severe side effects of prolonged moderate- or high-dose daily therapy.8 Although brief courses of moderate daily dose and low-dose alternate-day corticosteroids have fewerClinical course over time of 32 patients with ocular myasthenia gravis expressed as percentage of abnormal patients for each category.
RKSULTS end. Diplopia was reported in the primary position 29 patients and the downgaze position 26 patients at baseline. The frequency of ocular motility dysfunction was similar for all directions of gaze and there was no preference for involvement of either the right or left eye. At baseline ptosis occurred in 24 patients with weakness of the left 10 patients and both 11 patients levator palpebrae muscles found more often than the right levator palpebrae superioris alone 3 patients. Two years after diagnosis Figure diplopia was found in the primary position 11 patients and the down gaze position 11 patients 9 of whom also had diplopia in primary gaze and 66% of patients had normal ocular motility. Ptosis was found in 7 patients. Of the 17 pa tients who received additional daily moderate-dose pred nisone 7 had diplopia in primary gaze 4 of whom also had diplopia in downgaze. Generalized disease devel oped in 3 patients 9.4% none of whom had previ ously received a second course of moderate-dose ster oids. In these 3 patients 1 had an elevated serum acetylcholine receptor antibody level 5 nmol/L with nor mal findings on electromyogram and 1 had abnormal elec tromyogram findings and no measurable levels for se rum acetylcholine receptor antibody.
Ocular motility was normal in 56% at 3 years and 62% at 4 years. The GMG developed at 4 years in 2 ad ditional patients. Neither of these 2 patients had abnor mal initial electromyogram results or elevated acetylcho line receptor antibody levels. No patient treated with daily prednisone had acute worsening of the baseline examination all patients were examined within 1 week of starting prednisone therapy. No patient had a significant corticosteroid complica tion including spontaneous fracture gastric ulcer new diabetes mellitus new or worse hypertension bacterial or fungal infection or psychosis. COMMENT end. Doses of corticosteroids that do not cause major side effects appear to be associated with a reduction of the expected frequency of deterioration of OMG to GMG. This result is comparable with those obtained with higher-dose corticosteroids3 or thymectomy12 which are generally not recommended in the treatment of OMG.13 The amount of corticosteroids we used also seemed to normalize lid and ocular motor function in OMG with similar frequency to the results obtained using corticotropin19 or high-dose corticosteroids.310 We cannot offer a definitive explanation for these results but it is possible that the patients in our study had milder disease and were th.
It is also possible that our patient selection was biased toward patients who would not develop generalized dis ease if untreated. However most of our patients had ocular symptoms for less than several months and only 5 patients had symptoms more than a year prior to evaluation and corticosteroid therapy. Even if we exclude the latter 5 cases only 11% of patients treated with corticosteroids developed GMG at 2 years. A con trolled treatment trial is needed to confirm the potential use of short courses of moderate dose with or without subsequent alternate-day low-dose corticosteroids. In patients with improvement of lid and ocular mo tor function alternate-day low-dose therapy can main tain the benefit. We might have had a higher frequency of successful control of ptosis and diplopia if the reduc tion in the dose of prednisone had been performed more slowly.14Similar to previous reports on OMG none of our patients experienced a worsening of their signs or symp toms during the initial phase of daily corticosteroid treat ment1013 which has been described in patients with GMG.8 Although low-dose alternate-day prednisone with gradual increase to a daily-dose regimen may be needed in GMG to prevent .
This study was supported by the R. L end. Kohns Foun dation and Research to Prevent Blindness Ine New York NY.Reprints Mark J. Kupersmith MD 530 First Ave Suite 3B New York NY 10016.REFERENCES1. Schlezinger NS Fairfax WA. Evaluation of ocular signs and symptoms in myasthenia gravis. Arch Ophthalmol. 195962985-990.2. Lisak RP Barchi RL. Myasthenia Gravis. Philadelphia Pa WB Saunders Co 19828.3. Evoli A Tonali P Bartoccioni E Lo Monaco M. Ocular myasthenia diagnostic and therapeutic problems. Acta Neurol Scand. 19887731-35.4. Kupersmith MJ Weinberg H Frohman L Breinin GM. Ocular myasthenia diagnosis and treatment. In Smith JL Katz RS eds. Neuro-ophthalmology Enters the Nineties. New York NY EP Dutton 1988173-182.5. Grob D Arsura E Brunner N Namba T. The course of myasthenia gravis and therapies affecting outcome. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1987505472-499.6. Bever CT Aquino AV Penn AS Lovelace RE Rowland LP. Prognosis of ocular myasthenia. Ann Neurol. 198314516-519.7. Osserman KE. Ocular myasthenia gravis. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 19676 277-287.8. Brunner NG Namba T Grob D. Corticosteroids in management of severe generalized myasthenia gravis effectiveness and comparison with corticotropin therapy. Neurology. 197222603-610.9. Cape CA end.
Arch Ophthalmol. 197390292-293.10. Fischer KC Schwartzman RJ. Oral corticosteroids in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1976274652-658.11. von Noorden GK Maumenee AE. Atlas of Strabismus. St Louis Mo Mosbypm- Year Book 197346-51 110-111.12. Schumm F Wietholter H Fateh-Maoghadam A Dichgans J. Thymectomy in myasthenia with pure ocular symptoms. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1985 48332-337.13. Sanders DB Scoppetta C. The treatment of patients with myasthenia gravis. Neurol Clin. 199412343-368.14. Miano MA Bosley TM Heiman-Patterson TD et al. Factors influencing outcome of prednisone dose reduction in myasthenia gravis. Neurology. 1991 41919-921.15. Mann JD Johns TR Campa JF. Long-term administration of corticosteroids in myasthenia gravis. Neurology. 197626729-740.16. Seybold ME Drachman DB. Gradually increasing doses of prednisone in myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med. 197429081-84.Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a New York University User on 06/03/2015. COMPARISON OF OUTCOME MEASURES FROM A TRIAL OF MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL IN MYASTHENIA GRAVIS.
The primary efficacy measure was the change from baseline in the Quantitative MG QMG score at week 12. Secondary outcome measures included the MGActivities of Daily Living profile MG-ADL and MG Manual Muscle Test MMT. The measures were collected at baseline and at weeks 4 8 and 12 in the blinded study and at weeks 16 20 28 and 36 in an optional open-label extension. At baseline the QMG was moderately correlated with the MG-ADL r 0.55 P 0.0001 and the MMT r 0.53 P 0.0001 but the correlation between the MG-ADL and the MMT was lower r 0.30 P 0.007. These findings were similar at weeks 4 8 and 12. Similar correlations were found among the changes in scores from baseline at weeks 12 and 36. The MMT and MG-ADL appeared to be the most sensitive measures for changes in MG status at weeks 12 and 36. Although a task force has recommended use of the QMG in prospective MG trials the MMT and MG-ADL appear to be suitable alternatives and offer potential advantages. No special training or equipment is required and they take less time. Muscle Nerve 38 14291433 2008 COMPARISON OF OUTCOME MEASURES FROM A TRIAL OF MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL IN MYASTHENIA GRAVIS GIL I. WOLFE MD RICHARD J. BAROHN MD DONALD B. SANDERS MD MICHEL P.
enia gravis is the best characterized and understood autoimmune disease of the nervous system.18 It is the most common neuromuscular transmission disorder followed in neurology clinics. Nevertheless standardized grading systems and outcome measures for MG were not developed until the last decade. In 1997 the Medical Scientific Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA formed a task force to develop a uniform system for recording and reporting clinical data and outcomes in MG.1 One of the task forces recommendations was to employ a quantitative scoring system in all prospective therapy studies of MG and the Quantitative MG QMG score was specifically recommended for this purpose.7 The QMG is a 13-item scale that includes assessment of ocular cranial respiratory axi. al and limb muscle function relevant to MG supplementary material.2 Each item is scored on a scale of 0 normal to 3 most severe. In recent studies the QMG has demonstrated high interrater reliability concurrent validity and responsiveness.2316 The MGFA task force also recommended that studies be performed to determine the value of modifications to the QMG or alternative outcome measures.
is score end. Muscle Nerve 38 14291433 2008. COMPARISON OF OUTCOME MEASURES FROM A TRIAL. end. OF MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL IN MYASTHENIA GRAVIS. GIL I end. WOLFE MD1 RICHARD J. BAROHN MD2 DONALD B. SANDERS MD3 MICHEL P. McDERMOTT PhD4 and THE MUSCLE STUDY GROUP1 Department of Neurology University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard Dallas Texas 75390-8897 USA 2 Department of Neurology University of Kansas Medical Center Kansas City Kansas USA 3 Division of Neurology Duke University Medical Center Durham North Carolina USA 4 Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology University of Rochester School of Medicineand Dentistry Rochester New York USAAccepted 20 July 2008Myastheni. a gravis is the best characterized and understood autoimmune disease of the nervous system.18 It is the most common neuromuscular transmission disorder followed in neurology clinics. Nevertheless standardized grading systems and outcome measures for MG were not developed until the last decade.
l and limb muscle function relevant to MG supplementary material.2 Each item is scored on a scale of 0 normal to 3 most severe. In recent studies the QMG has demonstrated high interrater reliability concurrent validity and responsiveness.2316 The MGFA task force also recommended that studies be performed to determine the value of modifications to the QMG or alternative outcome measures.The Muscle Study Group recently completed a prospective multicenter randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine if mycophenolate mofetil MMF in combination with prednisone provided better control of MG signs and symptomsA. bbreviations ADL Activities of Daily Living profile ALSFRS Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale MG myasthenia gravis MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MMF mycophenolate mofetil MMT Manual Muscle Test QMG Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis score Key words clinical trials myasthenia outcome measures Disclaimer Lawrence H. Phillips MD was a Muscle Study Group investigator but did not participate in the planning or execution of this study. Correspondence to G.I. Wolfe e-mail gil.wolfeutsouthwestern.edu 2008 Wiley Periodicals Inc. Published online 15 October 2008 in Wiley InterScience www.interscience. wiley.com.
QMG assessments continued during an optional 6-month open-label extension of the study that was made available to all participants. Secondary outcome measures included the MG Activities of Daily Living profile MG-ADL19 and the MG Manual Muscle Test MMT.15 The MG-ADL profile is a simple eight-item questionnaire that focuses on common symptoms reported in MG supplementary material. Like the QMG each item is scored on a scale of 03 and the items inquire about ocular cranial respiratory and limb symptoms but not specifically about axial function. The MMT assesses strength in 30 muscle groups 6 cranial/24 axial-limb on a scale of 0 normal to 4 paralyzed/unable to do. It does not include a respiratory measure supplementary material. The global assessment of response to treatment measured as either markedly improved defined by the MGFA categories of Pharmacologic Remission or Minimal Manifestations7 improved unchanged or worse served as a more general secondary measure of response.11Although the clinical trial failed to demonstrate a clinically significant benefit of MMF with prednisone compared with prednisone alone after 12 weeks patients in both arms of the study showed similar and considerable improvement in the primary . and secondary measures of efficacy.
Direct comparisons among these three outcome measures particularly in terms of responsiveness have not been performed previously. METHODS end. Eighty patients with acetylcholine receptor antibodypositive MG were recruited between December 2002 and October 2005 from 13 academic centers and randomized to receive either MMF 2500 mg/day plus prednisone 20 mg/day n 41 or matching placebo plus prednisone 20 mg/day n 39. Further details regarding study design and results were recently published.11 Institutional review board approval was received individually at each of the study sites.The primary efficacy measure in the doubleblind trial was the change from baseline in the QMG score at week 12. Secondary outcome measures included changes in the MG-ADL and MMT and aglobal assessment of response. Trained blinded evaluators performed the QMG and other personnel administered the MG-ADL. MMT scoring was conducted by the blinded evaluating neurologist. QMG evaluators were blinded to the other assessments of disease activity and personnel performing the MMT and MG-ADL were blinded to the QMG. The QMG MG-ADL and MMT were obtained at baseline and weeks 4 8 and 12. During the open-label phase of the study the QMG MG-ADL and MMT measurements were performed at weeks 16 20 28 and 36.
Responsiveness of these outcome measures was quantified using both Cohens effect size mean change from baseline divided by the standard deviation at baseline4 and the paired t-statistic which is proportional to the standardized response mean i.e. the mean change divided by the standard deviation of the change.5 The mean response for each outcome variable was compared among the different levels of the global assessment of response no change/worsened improved markedly improved using analysis of va. riance end. The F-statistic was used as a measure of responsiveness of each outcome variable to these clinically distinct categories of global response. All analyses were performed ignoring the treatment group because there were no perceptible differences in mean response between treatment groups analyses performed separately for each treatment group yielded similar results. RESULTS end. Study Subjects. The 80 subjects included 33 women and 47 men with a mean  SD age of 56.2 18.2 years. At the baseline visit subjects averaged 12.9 5.1 on the QMG 7.1 3.3 on the MG-ADL and 20.3 10.6 on the MMT. Other information on subject characteristics and outcomes during the trial can be found in the trial report.11Correlations among Absolute Scores.
The correlation between the baseline MMT and MG-ADL scores was lower but it remained significant r 0.30 P 0.007. Similar results were seen at weeks 4 8 and 121430 Outcome Measures in MG MUSCLE  NERVE November 2008of the blinded phase of the study although the correlations between the MMT and MG-ADL were somewhat greater after baseline Table 1.Correlations among Changes in Scores. In addition to absolute values correlations among the changes from baseline in each of the scores were analyzed at the end of the blinded Week 12 and open-label week 36 phases. Small to moderate correlations were observed for all comparisons P 0.01 Table 2.Responsiveness to Change over Time. At weeks 12 and 36 the MMT and MG-ADL appeared to be the most sensitive measures for detecting changes in MG status from baseline Table 3. For both intervals the QMG appeared to be the least sensitive outcome measure.Association with Global Assessment of Response. When the outcome measures were compared with global assessments of response assigned by the site investigator the QMG and MG-ADL appeared to be superior in distinguishing among the three categoriesno change/worsened improved or markedly improvedduring the blinded phase of the study Table 4. DISCUSSION.
The QMG MMT and MG-ADL have become familiar scales to MG investigators and the QMG was recommended as the preferred outcome measure by the MGFA task force charged with developing a uniform system for reporting research data in MG trials.7 Since that recommendation was published the QMG has served as an outcome measure in several MG treatment trials including studies of mycophenolate mofetil10 tacrolimus1213 and etanercept.14 Completing the QMG usually takes 2030 minutes and a spirometer hand-hel. d dynamometer and stopwatch are required. Evaluators must be trained to perform the QMG.The moderate correlations observed between the QMG and both the MMT and MG-ADL in our trial support the utilization of the two latter measures in MG studies. At both weeks 12 and 36 the MMT and MG-ADL were the most sensitive measures of changes in MG status from baseline whereas the QMG was least sensitive. Of note the MMT was performed by a blinded neurologist who was masked to results from the QMG. The MG-ADL compared favorably with the QMG in terms of distinguishing among three categories of global assessment of response to the study interventions.
The MMT has high interrater reliability and validity compared with the QMG.15 The possible range of scores is wider for the MMT 0120 than for the QMG 039 and the MG-ADL 024 which may enhance its responsiveness. The MG-ADL profile requires less than 5 minutes and intensive training is not necessary.19Table 2. Correlation coefficients among the changes from baseline in the outcome measures at weeks 12 and 36.Interval QMG vs. MG-ADLQMG vs. MMTMMT vs. MG-ADLBaseline to week 12 n 71 0.51 0.55 0.34 Baseline to week 36 n 61 0.44 0.50 0.33P 0.004. P 0.01 end. P 0.001 for all other values.Outcome Measures in MG MUSCLE  NERVE November 2008 1431Clinical trials are often complex and expensive endeavors. Outcome measures that do not require specialized equipment or extensive training offer inherent advantages. Functional surveys that fit this mold are being increasingly utilized in studies of neuromuscular disease. In spinal muscular atrophy the Gross Motor Function Measure and Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale are straightforward surveys that are potentially more informative than equipment-intensive quantitative muscle testing in assessing weaker muscle groups.69 The Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale ALSFRS demonstrates excellent intra- and interrater reliability.
APPENDIX THE MUSCLE STUDY GROUP MSG. Principal Investigator Donald B. Sanders MD Durham NC. Steering Committee Michael McDermott PhD Charles Thornton MD Rabi Tawil MD Rochester NY Richard J. Barohn MD Kansas City KS. Investigators Carlayne Jackson MD San Antonio TX Janice Massey MD Durham NC Gil Wolfe MD Dallas TX April McVey MD Kansas City KS David Saperstein MD Kansas City KS John Kissel MD Columbus OH Lawrence Phillips MD Charlottesville VA Emma Ciafaloni MD Rochester NY Brian Crum MD Rochester MN Mark Sivak MD New York NY Matthew Meriggioli MD Chicago IL Michael Pulley MD Jacksonville FL Hannah Briemberg MDBoston MA Mark Bromberg MD Salt Lake City UT. Clinical Evaluators Deborah Myers BS PT San Antonio TX Bernadette Lipscomb RN MSN Durham NC Rhonda McLin PTA Dallas TX Laura Herbelin BS Kansas City KS Wendy King BA PT Columbus OH Mark Tekrony MD Charlottesville VA Shree Pandya MS PT Rochester NY Michael Harper MD Rochester MN Rose Vallines New York NY Julie Rowin MD Chicago IL Lisa Smith CCRP Jacksonville FL Merideth Donlan DPT Boston MA Nancy Ivy MS PT Salt Lake City UT. Clinical Coordinators Pamela Kittrell MSN RN San Antonio TX Karen White R.
Medical Monitor Wayne Massey MD Durham NC.MSG Coordination Center Rochester NY data management Nuran Dilek MS William Martens BS study coordination Christine Annis BS CCRC.MSG Biostatistics Center Rochester NY Joanne Janciuras AS.This study was presented in part at the 11th International Conference on Myasthenia Gravis and Related Disorders May 2007 Chicago Illinois. The clinical trial was supported by from the Orphan Products Development Program of the U.S. FDA Grant FD-R-002154 F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Roche Grant CEL248 and Aspreva Pharmaceuticals. Support from the General Clinical Research Center GCRC of the National Center for Research Resources NIH is also acknowledged MO1-RR00034 M01-RR00044 M01-RR01346 M01-RR023940.1432 Outcome Measures in MG MUSCLE  NERVE November 2008. Myasthenic Crisis Caused By Preoperative Chemotherapy With Steroid for Advanced Thymoma. We report the case of a 44-year-old woman with Masaoka stage IV World Health Organization type B1 thymoma associated with pure red cell aplasia thrombocytopenia and myasthenia gravis which occurred during preoperative chemotherapy with high-dose methylprednisolone.
Disseminated thymoma was markedly reduced after these treatments and macroscopic complete resection was performed after achieving control of pure red cell aplasia myasthenia gravis and thrombocytopenia using cyclosporine A. Chemotherapy including high-dose methylprednisolone may carry a risk of myasthenic crisis although the regimen is effective against lymphocyte-rich thymoma. Ann Thorac Surg 201599e113 2015 by The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Myasthenic Crisis Caused By with thymoma has received little attention. Here we end. Preoperative Chemotherapy With Steroid for Advanced Thymoma. Ayako Fujiwara MD Masayoshi Inoue MD PhD Hidenori Kusumoto MD Yasushi Shintani MD PhD Tetsuo Maeda MD PhD and Meinoshin Okumura MD PhDDepartments of General Thoracic Surgery and Hematology Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine Osaka JapanWe report the case of a 44-year-old woman with Masaoka stage IV World Health Organization type B1 thymoma associated with pure red cell aplasia thrombocytopenia and myasthenia gravis which occurred during preoperative chemotherapy with high-dose methylpre. dnisolone. Noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation intravenous immunoglobulin infusion and methylprednisolone pulse therapy were performed for the myasthenic crisis.
Chemotherapy including high-dose methylprednisolone may carry a risk of myasthenic crisis although the regimen is effective against lymphocyte-rich thymoma.Ann Thorac Surg 201599e113 2015 by The Society of Thoracic Surgeonsn patients with advanced thymoma preoperative Ichemotherapy is occasionally indicated to achieve complete resection. However the risk of the onset of myasthenia gravis MG during chemotherapy in patientsAccepted for publication Oct 3 2014.Address correspondence to Dr Inoue Department of General Thoracic Surgery Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine 2-2 L5 Yamadaoka Suita-shi Osaka 565-0871 Japan e-mail mithoracic.med. osaka-u.ac.jp.2015 by The Society of Thoracic Surgeons Published by Elsevierreport a case of advanced thymoma associated with pure red cell aplasia PRCA and amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia treated with preoperative chemotherapy that caused an acute-onset myasthenic crisis.A 44-year-old woman presented complaining of shortness of breath and nonproductive cough. She had severe anemia hemoglobin 4.8 g/dL with decreased reticulocytes 0.2%.
Pathologic diagnosis of World Health Organization type B1 thymoma was obtained from thoracoscopic biopsy specimen Fig 1C. As a result the patient was clinically diagnosed with Masaoka stage IVa World Health Organization type B1 thymoma with PRCA. The patients antiacetylcholine receptor antibody level was elevated at 13 nmol/L normal <0.2 nmol/L but no symptoms of MG were apparent at that time. Because complete resection could not be expected eight courses of chemotherapy using cisplatin 30 mg/m2 day 1 vincristine 1 mg/m2 day 1 doxorubicin 40 mg/ m2 day 1 and etoposide 80 mg/m2 days 1 to 3 of a 7-day cycle were administered. Chest computed tomography showed disappearance of pleural effusion without tumor shrinkage and the response was regarded as stable disease. As a second-line treatment CAMP chemotherapy with cisplatin 20 mg/m2 days 1 to 4 doxorubicin 40 mg/m2 day 1 and methylprednisolone 1000 mg/body weight days 1 to 4 and 500 mg/body weight days 5 to 6 was initiated. On day 3 the patient experienced respiratory crisis of MG diagnosed using the edrophonium test.
original0003-4975/36.00 http//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.athoracsur.2014.10.022Plasmapheresis was not necessary because the crisis was resolved immediately after intravenous immunoglobulin was administered.Thrombocytopenia platelet count 2.0 104/mL was observed 50 days after administration of CAMP therapy whereas the white blood cells count remained within the normal reference range. A bone marrow biopsy specimen showed hypocellularity with marked decreases in megakaryocytes and reticulocytes. The reticulated platelet ratio was within the normal reference range and serum thrombopoietin level was elevated to 1050 pg/mL normal <106 pg/mL.Cyclosporine A was administered for the management of thrombocytopenia and PRCA under a diagnosis of thymomatous autoimmune disorder and the platelet count normalized within 20 days. Chest computed tomography showed marked shrinkage of the primary tumor and the disseminations Figs 2A 2B.At 7 months after diagnosis radical resection was performed through a right hemiclamshell incision. The preoperative antiacetylcholine receptor antibody level was at 13 nmol/L.
Macroscopic complete resection including disseminated lesions was achieved and diaphragmatic plication was added to prevent paradoxical diaphragmatic movement. The operative time was 478 minutes and total blood loss was 1450 mL.Pyridostigmine was postoperatively administered for general fatigue and diplopia which were considered to represent myasthenic symptoms while the MG had been well controlled without a severe crisis. The patient was discharged home on postoperative day 20 in a stable condition.Histopathologic examination showed lymphocytes and atypical epithelia spreading across organized tissue probably influenced by the preoperative chemotherapy Fig 2C. The patient underwent a repeat resection of relapsed left pleural dissemination 1 year later. PRCA thrombocytopenia and MG have since been adequately controlled without symptoms by oral administration ofcyclosporine A 200 mg/d prednisolone 15 mg every second day and pyridostigmine 60 mg/d. Comment end. For advanced thymoma multimodal therapy including chemotherapy has recently been performed in practice 1. In addition to chemotherapy steroids have been another option for the treatment of thymoma. In the thymoma tissue nonneoplastic propagative T cells are mixed in varying proportions.
Kobayashi and colleagues 2 reported that the overall response rate to steroid pulse therapy was 47.1% and that efficacy was most prominent in type B1 thymoma with abundant immature T cells. Likewise Funakoshi and colleagues 3 reported that neoplastic epithelial cells in thymoma express glucocorticoid receptors and glucocorticoids may directly affect tumor cells in addition to effects on associated lymphocytes. CAMP therapy which includes high-dose methylprednisolone was thus selected as the second-line approach for this patient. Despite the absence of randomized studies the efficacy of steroid therapy for MG is well recognized however steroid pulse therapy also carries a risk of transient exacerbation of myasthenic symptoms 4. Because a myasthenic crisis actually developed in this patient just after CAMP therapy was initiated high-dose methylprednisolone administration appears to warrant careful consideration not only in thymoma patients with MG but also in those with potential MG without symptoms. However preoperative chemotherapy remains valuable against advanced thymoma with complete surgical resection representing a well-known independent predictor of better prognosis 5.
Others including PRCA hypogammaglobulinemia and systemic lupus erythematosus occur in approximately 5% to 10% of thymoma patients. Thrombocytopenia is rare although described in some case reports. The treatment strategy could be complicatedin patients with multiple parathymomatous associations as in the present patient. Christensen and colleagues 7 suggested that the lower remission rate in MG patients showing associations with other autoimmune diseases might indicate a complex autoimmune response in patients with multiple autoimmune disorders. The successful treatment of PRCA and amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia with cyclosporine A could suggest an autoimmunologic mechanism caused by thymoma. Immunosuppressive therapy may be a key management step to facilitate radical treatment of advanced thymoma.In conclusion we encountered a patient with thymoma associated with PRCA amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia and MG triggered by preoperative chemotherapy. Although methylprednisolone may effective against type B1 thymomaphysiciansmustpayattention to theonset of a myasthenic crisis even in patients with only potential MG. Design of the Efficacy of Prednisone in the Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia EPITOME trial. Michael Benatar1 Donald B. Sanders2 Gil I. Wolfe3 Michael P.
2Division of Neurology Department of Medicine Duke University Durham North Carolina. 3Department of Neurology University at Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences State University of New York Buffalo New York. 4Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology University of Rochester Medical Center Rochester New York. 5Department of Neurology University of Rochester Medical Center Rochester New York. ANNALS OF THE NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES. Issue Myasthenia Gravis and Related Disorders. Design of the Efficacy of Prednisone in the Treatment. of Ocular Myasthenia EPITOME trialMichael Benatar1 Donald B. Sanders2 Gil I. Wolfe3 Michael P. McDermott45 and Rabi Tawil5 1Department of Neurology University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Miami Florida. 2Division of Neurology Department of Medicine Duke University Durham North Carolina. 3Department of Neurology University at Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences State University of New York Buffalo New York. 4Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology University of Rochester Medical Center Rochester New York.
mbenatarmed.miami.eduEfficacy of Prednisone in the Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia EPITOME is a multicenter randomized double blind placebo-controlled trial that is being conducted under the auspices of the Muscle Study Group. EPITOME is the first randomized control trial in patients with ocular myasthenia and aims to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of prednisone over a period of four months in patients with newly diagnosed ocular myasthenia whose symptoms have failed to remit in response to a trial of cholinesterase inhibitor therapy.Keywords ocular myasthenia steroids clinical trial evidence-based medicine. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis is a generalized disorder that often manifests initially as focal weakness. The most common focal presentation is ocular with weakness involving the extraocular muscles eyelid levators and orbicularis oculi. The two leading ocular symptoms are ptosis and diplopia.
a gravis GMG. Treatments proposed for OM include drugs with a purely symptomatic effect such as cholinesterase inhibitors as well as drugs that suppress the immune system such as corticosteroids. Proponents of steroids point to the limited efficacy of pyridostigmine the potentially greater symptomatic effects of prednisone and the potential for steroids to reducethe risk of progression from ocular to generalized disease. Opponents emphasize the potential risk of serious side effects and question whether these risks are justified by the severity of and functional limitations imposed by purely ocular symptoms.There have been two prior randomized controlled trials RCTs relevant to the treatment of OM.1112 Neither trial permits any conclusion regarding the relative efficacy of cholinesterase inhibitor and steroid therapy.
oise among neuromuscular specialists and within the broader medical community provides justification for an RCT comparing cholinesterase inhibitor therapy to the combination of steroids and a cholinesterase inhibitor. A practice parameter published by thedoi 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06780.x Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. 1275 2012 1722 c 2012 New York Academy of Sciences. 17American Academy of Neurology concurred with the need for a well-designed randomized placebocontrolled study of the efficacy of cholinesterase inhibitors and corticosteroids in OM.12. Trial design. end. Overview end. The EPITOME study is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial that aims to address the equipoise that currently exists regarding the use of corticosteroids for treating patients with OM Fig. 1 end. Prior to randomization all study participants are treated with pyridostigmine which is titrated to efficacy or tolerability over four to six weeks. Participants whose symptoms fail to remit are randomized to receive either prednisone or placebo in a double-blind manner. The trial evaluates a prednisone dosing strategystart low and titrate upward as needed based on efficacy and safety/tolerabilityrather than a fixed dosage of prednisone.
Budgetary and hence sample size constraints precluded a three-arm trial comparing both dosing strategies to placebo. Both groups are maintained on a stable dosage of pyridostigmine throughout the trial. After four months stage 1 participants who fail to attain sustained minimal manifestation status MMS and do not experience dose-limiting adverse events will receive high-dosage prednisone with subsequent taper in an open-label fashion. Those who do achieve sustained MMS will have study drug tapered in a double-blind fashion stage 2. The schedule of assessments during stage 2 mimics that of stage 1 in order to provide hypothesis-generating data about the relative safety and efficacy of the two different steroid dosing strategies. Patient population. The trial eligibility criteria aim to enroll a sample of patients with new or recent onset of ocular myasthenia < two years since symptom onset who have not previously received immune suppressive or modulating therapy and who have not already received treatment with prednisone.
Study drug. Prednisone will be started at a dosage of 10 mg every other day with the dosage increased by 10 mg every two weeks the dosage is initially increased to 10 mg/day then 20 mg alternating with 10 mg and so forth. The maximum dosage allowed during stage 1 is 40 mg/day. The dosage is titrated according to whether MMS has been attained and the presence and nature of adverse events. Dosage escalation is constrained by toxicity that does not respond to appropriate medical intervention. Open-label highdosage prednisone is initiated at 60 mg/day in those who fail to achieve MMS during the double-blind phase and who have not already developed doselimiting side effects the dosage is quickly tapered based on efficacy and safety/tolerability. Trial duration. The chosen four-month duration of the doubleblind treatment period was felt to be sufficient to demonstrate the efficacy of prednisone in mitigating the symptoms of OM. A significantly longer duration of therapy would be needed to adequately evaluate the impact of steroids on the risk of progression to generalized disease but this would also have entailed use of placebo over a substantially longer period of time.
Outcome measures. The primary efficacy outcome measure will be treatment failure defined as failure to achieve sustained MMS within four months of therapy progression to GMG or toxicity leading to discontinuation of study drug. This outcome is useful because it combines measures of efficacy and tolerability and is clinically meaningful because it regards as treatment failures those whose symptoms do not remit within the fourmonth time frame of follow-up. MMS is regarded as sustained when it is observed at two consecutive inperson evaluations approximately one month apart. Sustained MMS is used instead of simply attainment18 Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. 1275 2012 1722 c 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.of MMS since the goal is to identify a durable treatment effect and to avoid declaring treatment success based simply on a temporary fluctuation in disease severity. Progression to GMG is defined on the basis of the results of MG-manual muscle testing MGMMT23 but also considers symptoms of dysphagia and dyspnea since these are not captured by the MG-MMT.Secondary goals are to separately examine efficacy and safety/tolerability outcomes.
For the components of ptosis and diplopia or restricted ocular motility scores are assigned based on the latency to onset of symptomsa score of 0 if symptoms do not emerge within 45 s a score of 1 if symptoms emerge within 1145 s a score of 2 if symptoms emerge within 110 s and a score of 3 if symptoms are spontaneous. Eye closure is scored as it is in the QMG.For safety/tolerability we will document study drug discontinuation subject withdrawal and individual adverse events. Active screening is employed to identify steroid-related adverse events. TheAnn end. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. 1275 2012 1722 c 2012 New York Academy of Sciences. 19impact of steroids on glycemic control is evaluated using glucose tolerance tests nondiabetics and glycosylated hemoglobin studies diabetics prior to treatment and at select intervals throughout the course of the trial. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry DEXA bone density scans are performed at pre- and posttreatment time points with prophylaxis against steroid-induced bone loss provided to all participants with reduced bone mineral density t score < 1.0 in hip femur or spine.
However since the process of evaluating and managing adverse events may unmask the neurologist to the assigned treatment the study design requires different assessments from two independent investigators. One investigator designated as the treating neurologist collects reviews and adjudicates adverse event data. The second investigator designated as the blinded evaluator will be responsible for determining the MGFA postintervention status to ascertain the presence or absence of minimal manifestation status and for performing the neuromuscular examination to evaluate whether there has been progression to GMG. The blinded evaluator will not participate in adverse event evaluations and study participants are specifically instructed to not communicate any adverse event data to the blinded evaluator. Questionnaires are administered to ascertain the success of these blinding procedures. Cholinesterase inhibitor therapy. The ocular-QMG and MG-MMT are completed twice at the week four visit prior to randomization. The first set of evaluations is performed off pyridostigmine to ensure that the participant has not developed generalized MG that might otherwise be masked by symptomatic therapy with a cholinesterase inhibitor.
Outcome measures at subsequent study visitsare performed on pyridostigmine because the study aims to compare the efficacy of pyridostigmine with that of the combination of prednisone and pyridostigmine. Sample size considerations. Published retrospective data were used to estimate the sample size for the EPITOME trial. These data suggest that 75% of OM patients achieve remission on prednisone plus pyridostigmine after failing to remit on pyridostigmine alone compared to 31% on pyridostigmine alone18 over a four-month period. Key assumptions underlying our calculations include a some proportion less than the observed 75% of the prednisone treated group will achieve remission i.e.  25% will experience treatment failure b some proportion less than the observed 31% of the placebo treated group will remit i.e.  69% will fail and c prednisone will be stopped in 10% of participants because of adverse events this did not occur in our retrospective study. Based on a and c we assumed that  35%  25%  10% of subjects in the prednisone group would experience treatment failure.
A total sample size of 88 subjects will be enrolled in the trial to account for a projected loss to follow-up rate of  10%. Discussion. The EPITOME trial was designed to mimic clinical practice to the greatest extent possible in order to ensure that the trial answers a clinically relevant question that can be generalized to a broad population of OM patients. For example the trial is not limited to patients with acetylcholine receptor antibody positive disease. Similarly patients with medical comorbidities that make the use of steroids challenging e.g. patients with diabetes or osteoporosis are not excluded as these are anticipated to be common medical problems within the potentially eligible study population. Moreover the therapeutic approach is consistent with the dictates of clinical practice. For example treatment begins with cholinesterase inhibitor therapy and only those20 Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. 1275 2012 1722 c 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.individuals who fail to adequately respond become eligible for randomization. The trial evaluates a steroid-dosing strategy rather than a fixed dosage of prednisone given the expectation based on clinical experience that different patients have varying steroid requirements.
The steroid-dosing strategy therefore aims to identify the minimum effective dosage that does not produce unacceptable side effects. In addition the trial employs a fairly aggressive strategy for prospectively identifying potential steroid side effects including glucose intolerance reduced bone mineral density cataracts and glaucoma. To minimize the potential that review of steroid side effects will unmask the investigator to the treatment arm and thus bias outcome assessment a treating neurologist will evaluate adverse event data while a blinded evaluator assesses efficacy outcomes.Although designed prior to publication of the recent MGFA recommendations for myasthenia gravis clinical trials27 EPITOME was developed with many of the same issues in mind. Already noted are the broad inclusion criteria the aggressive monitoring for steroid side effects and optimization of cholinesterase therapy prior to randomization. In addition the number of trial sites has been doubled to 10 from the initial 5 to mitigate the risk of slow recruitment and efforts are underway to incorporate a biomarker component into the trial. Acknowledgments. We are grateful to the many people who have contributed to the design and implementation of this trial.
Alexandre Waltz has overseen trial initiation at the University of Miami and Khema Sharma MD serves as the blinded evaluator. The site investigators and their staff Richard Barohn MD Mamatha Pasnoor MD Mazen Dimachkie MD Yunxia Wang MD Thomas Whittaker MD Laura Herbelin and Joseph Sibinski Kansas University Medical Center Srikanth Muppidi MD Jaya Trivedi MD and Nina Gorham CCRP University of Texas Southwestern Ted Burns MD Guillermo Solorzano MD Lawrence Phillips MD Kelly Gwathmey MD Raam Samban-dam MD and Amruta Joshi MS CRC University of Virginia Vern Juel MD Jeffrey Guptill MD Lisa Hobson-Webb MD Janice Massey MD an. d Katherine Beck Duke University Michael Hehir MD Rup Tandan MD Waqar Waheed MD and Shannon Lucy University of Vermont. Randall Yeates and William Wilson at the University of Iowa Research Pharmacy for preparing study drug and matching placebo. Cornelia Kamp Pat Bolger Tim Hackett and Joan Woodcook at the Clinical Material Services Unit CMSU at the University of Rochester which serves as the central pharmacy for the trial. Joanne Janciuras at the University of Rochester who is the biostatistical programmer for the trial.
Conflicts of interest. The authors declare no conflicts of interest. Clinical predictors of steroid-induced exacerbation in myasthenia gravis. Although oral corticosteroids are effective for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG the possibility of steroid-induced exacerbation of symptoms especially during the initial course of steroid therapy has limited their use patients with severe MG. However the factors influencing or predicting in exacerbation are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical factors that predict the initial paradoxical exacerbation of MG in response to steroid therapy. Fifty-five consecutive patients who were administered for the first time high doses of prednisone 4080 mg in a tertiary medical centre in Seoul were included. Prednisone-induced exacerbation was defined as a significant reduction in a patients Myasthenia Gravis Severity Scale MSS score within 4 weeks of prednisone administration. We divided the patients into two groups on the basis of whether or not they experienced prednisone-induced exacerbation and investigated the differences between the two groups with respect to clinical laboratory and electrophysiological features. Twenty-three patients 42% experienced definite exacerbation after prednisone therapy.
A high daily dosage of prednisone relative to body weight was found to be neither a predictor of exacerbation nor a predictor of early improvement in bivariate correlation analysis. Steroid-induced exacerbation in MG is a frequently encountered and challenging problem. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of exacerbation of MG when prescribing prednisone especially when treating elderly bulbar dominant or severely myasthenic patients. 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Although oral corticosteroids are effective for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG the possibility of steroid-induced exacerbation of symptoms especially during the initial course of steroid therapy has limited their use patients with severe MG. However the factors influencing or predicting in exacerbation are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical factors that predict the initial paradoxical exacerbation of MG in response to steroid therapy. Fifty-five consecutive patients who were administered for the first time high doses of prednisone 4080 mg in a tertiary medical centre in Seoul were included.
We divided the patients into two groups on the basis of whether or not they experienced prednisone-induced exacerbation and investigated the differences between the two groups with respect to clinical laboratory and electrophysiological features. Twenty-three patients 42% experienced definite exacerbation after prednisone therapy. Older age predominantly severe bulbar symptoms and low MSS score were found to be significant clinical predictors of exacerbation by multivariate logistic regression analysis. A high daily dosage of prednisone relative to body weight was found to be neither a predictor of exacerbation nor a predictor of early improvement in bivariate correlation analysis. Steroid-induced exacerbation in MG is a frequently encountered and challenging problem. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of exacerbation of MG when prescribing prednisone especially when treating elderly bulbar dominant or severely myasthenic patients. 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Steroids Prednisone Exacerbation Predictor. 1 end. Introduction. The first immunosuppressive agents used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG were corticosteroids. Prednisone is the most commonly used agent in the US12 and in our opinion also in Korea in our opinion.
However paradoxical exacerbation of MG by prednisone is also a well-known phenomenon especially during the initial course of therapy.35 The reported frequency of prednisone-induced exacerbation varies between 25% and 75%.71112 A wide range of severities of exacerba-0967-5868/ - see front matter 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.jocn.2005.12.041 Corresponding author. Tel. 82 2 3410 3594 fax 82 2 3410 0052. E-mail address bjkimsmc.samsung.co.kr B.J. Kim.tion have also been reported varying between mild aggravation of weakness to death from respiratory failure.67Prednisone is usually used as a secondary agent in combination therapy for MG when symptoms cannot be adequately controlled with anti-cholinesterase agent monotherapy. Accordingly it is likely that prednisone-induced exacerbation is a frequent problem for clinicians who prescribe prednisone for anti-cholinesterase-resistant MG. Thus factors that provoke prednisone-induced exacerbation and methods that can prevent or minimize prednisone-induced exacerbation are topics of great relevance to clinicians. However until recently no published studies concerning MG have focused on these issues.The current study was designed to determine the incidence and clinical features of prednisone-induced exacerbation.
2 end. Patients and methods. end. 2.1 end. Subjects end. This study was conducted using consecutive MG patients who visited Samsung Medical Center and Seoul Medical Center in Seoul Korea between March 1996 and June 2003. Patients were enrolled who were aged above 20 years had grade II MG according to the Osserman classification8 were being administered prednisone for the first time and were hospitalized so they could undergo serial neurologic examinations. We excluded patients with definite factors that would aggravate the clinical symptoms of MG such as infection or self-discontinuation of medication. Because it is difficult to determine whether a worsening of MG symptoms is caused by the effect of prednisone or is a reflection of the natural course of the disease we also excluded patients with severe pre-treatment fluctuation of MG symptoms MG crisis or impending crisis prior to prednisone administration. Furthermore we excluded patients who had recently undergone non-pharmacological therapeutic interventions that might influence the natural course of MG for example thymectomy or plasma exchange within 3 months prior to prednisone use. 2.2 end. Criteria and measurement of clinical exacerbation. In general the clinical symptoms of MG fluctuate over time.
Therefore the extent of exacerbation caused only by prednisone is difficult to ascertain and the influence of other factors must be minimized in order for it to be determined. For this purpose we assessed the clinical status of patients using the Myasthenia Severity Scale MSS9 Table 1. Prednisone-induced exacerbation and prednisone-induced improvement were defined respectively as a decrease or increase in MSS score by three or more points during the initial 4 weeks of prednisone use in patients without previous significant fluctuation of MSS score a change of less than two points Fig. 1 end. We also assessed patients by using the Myasthenia Functional Scale MFS9 to quantify neurological disability due to MG Table 2. 2.3 end. Laboratory findings. We analyzed the decremental ratios of repetitive nerve stimulation tests which were performed less than 1 month before and less than 1 month after the prednisone-induced exacerbation. We also analyzed acetylcholine receptor antibody levels during the same period. 2.4 end. Statistical analysis.
Results are presented as mean  standard deviation. We used the v2 test to assess differences between groups for the categorical variables and the MannWhitney U-test for continuous variables. To identify the independent predicting factors we performed univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis. Thelevel of significance was p < 0.05. SPSS 10.0 for Windows SPSS Inc. Chicago IL USA was used for the analysis. 3 end. Results end. end. 3.1 end. Comparison of clinical and laboratory findings. Twenty-three of 55 patients experienced prednisone-induced exacerbation as defined herein. Ten of these patients experienced such severe symptoms that they were admitted to the intensive care unit for approximately 10 days. Tracheostomy was performed for four patients and long-term respiratory support was required. However no deaths occurred because of exacerbations Table 3.The age of patients in the exacerbated group was significantly higher than that of patients in the non-exacerbatedgroup. However the age of MG onset was lower in the exacerbated group than in the non-exacerbated group.
The exacerbated group also had a significantly higher titre of acetylcholine receptor antibodies. When reasons for the addition of prednisone to the treatment regimen or target symptoms for prednisone were divided into bulbar symptoms and non-bulbar symptoms all patients in the exacerbated group were given prednisone for bulbar symptom control compared with 60% of the non-exacerbated group. The remaining 40% of the non-exacerbated group were administered prednisone to ameliorate non-bulbar symptoms such as weakness of the limbs or ocular symptoms.Patients who did not respond to prednisone treatment within the first 4 weeks represented only 20% of those in the exacerbated group but one-half of patients in the nonexacerbated group. Thus the probability of improvement was higher in the exacerbated group than in the non-exacerbated group. Other factors including sex duration of MG dosage of anti-cholinesterase pyridostigmine used before prednisone addition decremental ratio of a repetitive nerve stimulation test presence of thymoma or history of thymectomy and dose of prednisone per kilogram body weightgravis groupswere not significantly different between the exacerbated group and the non-exacerbated group Table 4. 3.2 end. Analysis of predictors.
We conducted the analysis using variables that had been proven to be significant factors by univariate analysis including age age at MG symptom onset MSS score titre of acetylcholine receptor antibody and dominancy of bulbar symptoms. Although the MFS score was found to be significant by univariate analysis it was excluded from multivariate regression analysis owing to its strong correlation with MSS score Spearman correlation coefficient 0.796 p < 0.001 and consequently the possibility that it would affect the regression model because of the problem of multi-linearity. The following were identified as significant factors by multivariate logistic regression analysis age low MSS score and predominant bulbar symptoms. Analysis showed that the regression model was adequate p < 0.001 the R2 value was 0.56. Hence older age low MSS score and predominant bulbar symptoms accounted for about 56% of the causal relationship for the exacerbation. Although both the age of MG onset and titre of acetylcholine receptor antibody levels were found to be significant in univariate analysis they were not significant in multivariate analysis Table 5.Daily doses of prednisone were between 0.6 and 1.8 mg/ kg in patients enrolled in this study.
p < 0.05.correlation p > 0.05. Daily dose of prednisone per kilogram body weight was neither a significant predictor of exacerbation nor related to early improvement. 4 end. Discussion. Currently steroids are the mainstay of immunotherapy for MG. However a well-designed randomized controlled trial proving the effectiveness of steroids for the treatment of MG has not been performed.10 The reported frequency of steroid-induced exacerbation varies between 25% and 75%71112 but the definition of exacerbation in these studies was inconsistent therefore comparisons between them are difficult. Recent hypotheses for the mechanisms by which worsening occurs are the action of released antibodies from degraded lymphocytes increased activity of cholinesterase in neuromuscular junctions and an overall increase in immune reactions.1315 However the main mechanism is not clearly understood despite many hypotheses. There is also ongoing debate about the optimal treatment regimen for achieving maximal efficacy and minimal side effects.
As a result in the clinical field judgement about steroid use in MG is largely empirical rather than evidence-based. Clinicians require information about the efficacy of steroids in MG the likelihood of initial exacerbation and severity of exacerbation. It is also important to know what the pure effects of prednisone are and what the optimal regimen for steroid use for minimizing initial exacerbation could be.The immunosuppressive agent we most commonly use for MG is prednisone and we have used a high-dose regimen 4080 mg. To prevent the exacerbation of symptoms we usually recommend that the patient be hospitalized during prednisone treatment when the patient is older has severe muscle weakness or recent aggravation of bulbar symptoms. Exacerbation of MG symptoms can manifest in various ways from a mild weakness that does not require support through to severe exacerbation that requires respiratory support in an intensive care unit. To maximize costeffectiveness it is important to know which patients must be hospitalized for serious exacerbation.
Chung and Myung5 suggested that exacerbation would be more severe in patients with infiltrative thymoma. However Seybold and Drachman found that neither epidemiological nor clinical factors were significant predictors.12 Some authors have even claimed that theso-called exacerbation is only a fluctuation of symptoms rather than exacerbation caused by prednisone.2122 We believe that the main causes of the inconsistent previous results concerning incidence and predictors of exacerbation are as follows. First there is the problem of defining steroid-induced exacerbation. The clinical symptoms of MG tend to fluctuate. When discussing the clinical worsening of MG symptoms clinicians must determine whether the fluctuation is a true exacerbation related to steroid use or only a transient fluctuation of symptoms unrelated to steroid use. In the present study we tried to define the steroid-induced paradoxical exacerbation of symptoms in MG representing the pure effects of steroids. Undoubtedly there will be some who will argue that our measurements do not represent the effects of steroids only. However to pinpoint the effects of steroids only we measured the MSS while steroids were administered.
Because there are no objective laboratory tools to measure the severity of MG symptoms our clinical definition is an improvement on the subjective and obscure definitions of worsening used in previous reports. The second problem relates to factors influencing the symptoms of MG. Previous studies did not consider confounding factors such as combined MG medication except for prednisone the presence of thymoma or recent plasma exchange or thymectomy. Our study included only patients who were being treated with prednisone for the first time and who had no history of being treated with other immunosuppressive agents. We analyzed the dosage of pyridostigmine at the time of prednisone addition and we excluded patients who could have been influenced by recent interventions. These factors were not identified as significant predictors. Neither were any of the following predictors presence of thymoma thymectomy or titre of acetylcholine receptor antibody.Developed on the basis of empirical data the large-dose prednisone regimen used in our clinic is a single dose of 60 80 mg per day. In the present study we calculated the dosage of prednisone per kilogram body weight and analyzed whether the dosage was related to either the probability of worsening or the rapidity of improvement.
Therefore we concluded that if a large-dose regimen of 40 80 mg administered in a single daily dose is used to treat an adult the dose of prednisone used does not affect either efficacy or side effects in patients with anti-cholinesterase-resistant MG.Our study identified older age predominant bulbar symptoms and severe neurologic status as independent clinical predictors of steroid-induced exacerbation in MG. Therefore we believe that close monitoring of MG symptoms during hospitalization is necessary for patients with these conditions especially during the initial course of prednisone administration. In fact many experienced cliniciansmay already consider these factors when making treatment decisions so our study could be criticized on the basis that we identified only previously well-accepted empirical findings. However we believe that our study can contribute by providing a small amount of clear data to guide an evidence-based approach to steroid-induced exacerbation of MG and strategies for minimizing it. Acknowledgement. We are indebted to Rene Cloer for assistance with preparation of the manuscript. Psychiatric Effects of Alternate Day Steroid Therapy.
Approximately half the patients were being treated with an alternate day regime of prednisone receiving high dosageone day and low the next. Emotional disorder was found to be less prevalent among these patients than among patients not on steroids.Thesignificance of the finding isdiscussed. Mycophenolate mofetil for myasthenia gravis An open-label pilot study. for myasthenia gravis An open-label pilot study Article abstractIn an open-label study 12 patients with refractory MG or who were taking only corticosteroids and required additional immunosuppression received mycophenolate mofetil 1 g twice daily for 6 months. A reduction of three points in a quantified MG score and two points in a manual muscle test or a reduction of 50% in corticosteroid dose defined efficacy. Eight patients improved beginning after 2 weeks to 2 months. No major side effects were observed. Mycophenolate mofetil for myasthenia gravisAn open-label pilot studyArticle abstractIn an open-label study 12 patients with refractory MG or who were taking only corticosteroids and required additional immunosuppression received mycophenolate mofetil 1 g twice daily for 6 months.
Eight patients improved beginning after 2 weeks to 2 months. No major side effects were observed.NEUROLOGY 2001569799E. Ciafaloni MD J.M. Massey MD B. TuckerLipscomb RN BSN APN and D.B. Sanders MDMycophenolate mofetil MM CellCept Roche Laboratories Nutley NJ is a novel and potent immunosuppressive agent. It blocks purine synthesis in activated T and B lymphocytes and selectively inhibits their proliferation while leaving other cell lines intact.1 It has been proven effective in preventing organ rejection in renal transplant patients when used with corticosteroids and cyclosporine.23 It has a strong safety profile and no major organ toxicity or mutagenic effect.2-5 Immunosuppressive therapy is effective in MG and the use of corticosteroids azathioprine and cyclosporine have changed the prognosis . of this autoimmune disease. Unfortunately these agents all carry serious side effects and some patients do not tolerate them or respond adequately to them. The possibility of a new effective and safe immunosuppressive agent to add to our MG treatment armamentarium is very attractive. The use of MM in MG has not been studied but successful treatment of one patient with severe refractory MG suggested its potential role in this disease.6Patients and methods.
Patients between the ages of 18 and 80 years with acquired MG diagnosed according to accepted clinical electrophysiologic and pharmacologic criteria7 who had or had not undergone thymectomy and who had or did not have elevated acetylcholine receptor antibodies AChR Ab were eligible for the study. Two groups of patients were studied 1 patients with refractory MG defined by a quantified MG QMG8 score of at least 10 and a manual muscle test MMT score figure of at least 5 despite treatment with corticosteroids and azathioprine for at least 2 years or cyclosporine for at least 1 year and 2 patients taking corticosteroids as sole therapy for at least 8 months and requiring additional immunosuppression toheighten the clinical improvement or to reduce the corticosteroid side effects. No plasmapheresis IV immunoglobulin treatment or change in medication dose was permitted for 3 months before enrollment. Anticholinesterase medications were continued and examinations were performed 4 hours after the most recent dose. MM was administered in an oral dose of 1 g every 12 hours for 6 months and clinic visits were performed every 2 months.
An activities of daily living ADL9 questionnaire was also administered by phone every week for the first month and at clinic visits every 2 months thereafter and was considered a secondary test of efficacy. The QMG and ADL scores have previously been validated in assessing MG.89 MMT is a physician-applied scoring system of strength in muscles that are typically affected in MG see the figure. All QMG tests were performed by the same nurse B.T.L. and MMT by one of the two senior investigators J.M.M. D.B.S. AChR Ab were measured at baseline and at the end of 6 months at the Mayo Medical Laboratory Rochester MN. Single-fiber electromyography EMG of the extensor digitorum communis or frontalis muscle was performed in the Duke University Medical Center EMG laboratory by the same examiner J.M.M. or D.B.S. at baseline and at the end of 6 months. Safety was assessed by physical and laboratory examinations evaluation of vital signs and monitoring of adverse reactions.Results. Twelve patients entered the study table 1 seven men five women mean age 56 years. All patients completed the study. Eleven patients had had thymectomy 7 months to 42 years earlier mean 16 years. The duration of MG varied from 7 months to 47 years mean 19 years.
Eight patients 67% improved six by QMG and MMT scores Patients 2 3 5 6 8 and 11 table 2 and two by reduction of corticosteroid dose Patients 9 and 10 see table 2. These two patients also had some improvement of QMG and MMT scores. One patient worsened Patient 12 see table 2 two improved only by QMG score 6 and 5 points and one only by MMT score 10 points and therefore were considered unFrom the Division of Neurology Duke University Medical Center Durham NC. Supported by a grant from Roche Pharmaceuticals Inc. Nutley NJ. Received May 25 2000. Accepted in final form August 24 2000. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Emma Ciafaloni Duke University Medical Center Division of Neurology DUMC 3403 Durham NC 27710 e-mail ciafa001mc.duke.eduSee also page 94Copyright  2001 by AAN Enterprises Inc. 97changed. Wilcoxon signed-rank sum analysis of all study patients showed improvement in MMT QMG and ADL scores at 6 months compared with baseline p  0.023 0.001 and 0.004. Improvement in the ADL scores was seen as early as 2 weeks after MM treatment was begun and improvement was seen in all responders at the firstfollow-up visit 2 months. In eight of 10 patients the corticosteroid dose was reduced. Mestinon was discontinued in two and decreased in four of eight patients.
Wilcoxon signed-rank sum analysis of AchR-binding Ab levels showed a reduction at 6 months compared withFigure. Manual muscle testing. Score each function as 0 5 normal 1 5 25% weak/mild impairment 2 5 50% weak/moderate impairment 3 5 75% weak/severe impairment 4 5 paralyzed/unable to do.AChR-Ab 5 acetylcholine receptor antibodies Aza 5 azathioprine pred 5 prednisone pyr 5 pyridostigmine.98 NEUROLOGY 56 January 1 of 2 2001baseline p  0.016. The mean group jitter value was unchanged 82.2 ms at baseline and 82.0 ms at 6 months and the mean group percentage of potential pairs with blocking was insignificantly decreased 28% at baseline and 25% at 6 months. No major side effects were observed. No diarrhea was reported. Two patients reported mild hand tremors that resolved after the first week. The hemoglobin value was decreased in two patients 2.6 and 1.9 g/dL. One of these patients was found to have iron deficiency as the cause of her anemia. Seven of the improved patients elected to continue taking MM at the end of the study and one did not because of financial reasons.Discussion. In this open-label pilot study MM appeared to be effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of refractory and steroid-dependent MG.
They were also still experiencing exacerbations and had previously been unable to reduce their medications without worsening. Five of them experi-enced significant improvement and were able to decrease their steroid dose while taking MM two decreased their cyclosporine dose by 50%.Our data also suggest a steroid-sparing effect of MM because eight of 11 patients taking prednisone at the time MM treatment was begun were able to decrease the prednisone dose without worsening.In all eight patients who improved symptomatic improvement started early between 2 weeks and 2 months and persisted throughout the 6 months. There were no major side effects observed and all patients were able to tolerate the drug. The safe side effect profile and the rapid onset of therapeutic effect if confirmed in the future would make MM a very attractive alternative to other currently available immunosuppressants for MG. All our patients were receiving other forms of immunosuppression at the time MM treatment was begun therefore the potential role of MM as sole therapy remains to be investigated. Larger prospective randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm our results and to assess long-term efficacy and safety of MM in MG.
Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disorder generally mediated by antibodies against the acetylcholine receptors of the skeletal muscles. Depending on the disease burden MG patients may experience chronic dysregulation of both the hormonal stress axis and the immune system consequently aggravating the disease itself but also leading to secondary psychopathological abnormalities. A long-term clinical course requires long-term glucocorticoid GC therapy which may change the psychological state by affecting the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients. In this study we investigated the function of the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients who were treated with prednisolone PSL and evaluated their quality of life by using the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey and the 28-item general health questionnaire GHQ-28. ACTH and cortisol levels in the plasma of patients who were treated with PSL PSL group n  18 were lower than those in the plasma of patients who were treated without PSL PSLj group n  29 P G 0.05 and P G 0.01 respectively. In the PSL group we confirmed that cortisol levels negatively correlated with daily PSL dosages P G 0.05.
There was no significant correlation between cortisol levels and corticotropin levels in plasma of the PSLj group. However we confirmed that corticotropin levels positively correlated with cortisol levels in plasma P G 0.01 and negatively correlated with anxiety/insomnia scores from the GHQ-28 P G 0.05 in the PSL group. In conclusion low-dose GC treatment complemented the pituitary-adrenocortical system and improved the psychological state in MG patients. Key Words myasthenia gravis 28-item General Health Questionnaire GHQ-28 Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey SF-36 glucocorticoid quality-of-life assessment pituitary-adrenocortical systemClin Neuropharm 201235 30Y36M yasthenia gravis MG is the most common primary dis-order of the neuromuscular junction. Patients with MG present with muscle weakness which fluctuates during the day usually being less severe in the morning and worse as the day progresses.1 In response to a stressor physiological changes are set into motion to help an individual cope with the stressor.
Some studies describe higher trait anxiety dysphoria and a greater suppression of anger3 which may in addition be influenced by corticosteroid treatment.4 Glucocorticoids GCs are useful as short-term immunosuppressants for MG patients. However long-term use of the steroid is associated with many adverse events including psychiatric disorders or insomnia.1The Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey SF-36 is a self-report measure of nonYdisease-specific health-related quality of life QOL.5 Moreover SF-36 has been used extensively to assess QOL in patients with various diseases including neurological rheumatologic cardiovascular and general medical disorders.6Y9 It has also been demonstrated to show good reliabili. ty and validity about MG patients.10 On the other hand the general health questionnaire GHQ is widely used as a screening instrument to detect a wide range of psychological well-being mainly the anxiety/depression spectrum.11 The GHQ-28 is frequently used as an indicator of psychological well-being and this latter construct resembles the psychological dimension of QOL.
Subjects end. Forty-seven subjects were enrolled in this study. We evaluated the disease state by using the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification 1 no MG symptoms class 0 2 MG with purely ocular muscle weakness class I 3 MG with mild generalized weakness including oropharyngeal muscle involvement class IIa/IIb 4 MG with moderate generalized weakness including oropharyngeal muscle involvement class IIIa/IIIb and 5 MG with severe generalized weakness including oropharyngeal muscle and respiratory muscle weakness class IVa/IVb/V.1. 4 Patient numbers were 6 for class 0 12 for class I 27 for class I- 1 for class III and 1 for class IV respectively. Thirty patients had undergone a thymectomy before immunosuppressive drug administration. Of the 47 patients 29 had been treated with anticholinesterase agents alone for 0.9 to 25.05 years. Eighteen patients had been30 www.clinicalneuropharm.com Clinical Neuropharmacology  Volume 35 Number 1 January/February 2012Third Department of Internal Medicine Tokyo Medical University Department of Clinical Pharmacology Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Sciences and Department of Pharmaceutics Tokyo Medical University Tokyo Japan.
Address correspondence and reprint requests to Sachiko Tanaka PhDDepartment of Clinical Pharmacology School of Pharmacy Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Sciences 1432-1 Horinouchi Hachioji Tokyo 192-0392 Japan E-mail sachikotoyaku.ac.jpCopyright  2012 by Lippincott Williams  Wilkins DOI 10.1097/WNF.0b013e31823c5480Copyright  2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.administered prednisolone PSL for 0.15 to 14.25 years. The daily dosage of PSL administration at the time of this study was 0.5 to 20 mg/d. The quantitative MG QMG score is a standardized quantitative strength scoring system developed specifically for MG and it has been recommended for use in treatment trials by the MGFA Task Force on Research Standards.15 This score is the sum of 13 components each of which can range from 0 to 3 yielding a range of 0 to 39 for a total score. The QMG score has been validated and shown to have adequate reproducibility responsiveness and longitudinal validity.16 Circulating antibodies to the acetylcholine receptors AChRs with additional mediation of the complement system are used to assess the clinical outcome of MG.
proved by the ethic committees of Tokyo Medical University and written consent was obtained from the patients. Psychological Evaluation. The emotional state was investigated by means of 2 different questionnaires SF-36 and GHQ-28 both in the Japanese version. The SF-36 consists of 8 subscales including physical functioning social functioning role disruption Y physical role disruption Y emotional mental health vitality bodily pain and general health. In addition to the 8 subscales 2 composite scores are derived ie Physical Health Composite PCS and Mental Health Composite MCS as well as a total score. Scores fromSF-36 fall within a 0 to 100 scale with higher scores reflecting better health-related QOL whereas PCS and MCS scores are norm-based scores mean SD 50 10 with higher scores reflecting better health-related QOL. The GHQ-28 scale was derived by factor analysis of the original 60-item version and prepared mainly for research purposes. However as already mentioned the scale is often used as a measure of psychological well-being too. The GHQ-28 incorporates 4 subscales somatic symptoms anxiety and insomnia social dysfunction and severe depression.
In scoring the GHQ the 4 columns ranging from not at all to much more than usual and are coded as 0 1 2 and 3 respectively.Hormone Assay We collected blood samples from the MG patients between 900 and 1100 AM to evaluate their corticotropin and cortisol levels in plasma. Blood samples were placed in different tubes containing EDTA and maintained in ice until centrifugation. Plasma aliquots for hormone determinations were then stored at j80-C until assayed. All measurements were performed in duplicate. Corticotropin was determined by electrochemiluminescence immunoassay with reagents Roche Diagnostics Basel Switzerland. The sensitivity of this assay is approximately 1.0 pg/mL and the reference range is 7.2 to 63.3 pg/mL for healthy subjects. Cortisol was determined by RIA with reagents Beckman Coulter Inc Calif. The lowest sensitivity level was 0.17 Kg/dL and the reference range was 3.8 to 18.4 Kg/dL for the healthy subjects.Statistical Analysis For comparison of means data were first analyzed by oneway analysis of variance. Mann-Whitney U test was used toTABLE 1.
Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.compare the data between the 2 groups. Relationships between any 2 indices were analyzed with the Spearman correlation coefficient test. P G 0.05 was considered significant. RESULTS end. We evaluated the function of the pituitary-adrenocortical system in the 47 MG patients. To investigate the influence of the GC treatment we compared the corticotropin or cortisol levels in plasma between the MG patients who were treated with PSL PSL group and those were treated without PSL PSLj group. The clinical characteristics of the MG patients are shown in Table 1. No significant differences in age disease duration anti-AChR titer or QMG score were observed between these groups.However both corticotropin Fig. 1A and cortisol concentrations Fig. 1B in the PSL group n  18 were higher than those in the PSLj group n  29 P  0.033 and P  0.008 respectively. We investigated the influence of corticotropin on cortisol secretion. A significant correlation between corticotropin levels and cortisol levels in plasma was observed in the PSL group r  0.76 P  0.004 Fig. 2B end. However there was nosignificant correlation between corticotropin and cortisol levels in plasma in the PSLj group Fig. 2A end.
As shown in Figure 3B there was a significant negative correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and daily dosage of PSLr  j0.38 P  0.03. Such a correlation was not observed between corticotropin levels and the daily dosage of PSL Fig. 3A.Next we compared the health-related QOL score by using 2 types of questionnaires. We compared the PCS scores Fig. 4A and MCS scores of SF-36 Fig. 4B between MG patients who were treated with and without PSL. No significant differences in these scores were observed between these groups. Then we compared the somatic symptoms anxiety and insomnia social dysfunction or severe depression of GHQ-28 between these groups. No significant differences were observed in somatic symptoms Fig. 5A or social dysfunction Fig. 5C of GHQ-28 between these groups. However anxiety and insomnia Fig. 5B or severe depression Fig. 5D of GHQ-28 in the PSLj group n  29 were significantly higher than those in the PSL group n  18 P  0.04.32 www.clinicalneuropharm.com  2012 Lippincott Williams  WilkinsCopyright  2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.Furthermore we investigated the relationships between cortisol levels in plasma and anxiety and insomnia or severe depression of GHQ-28 in the PSLj group.
6B end. However a significant negative correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and anxiety and insomnia of GHQ-28 was observed r j0.29 P  0.03 Fig. 6A end. These results suggest that GC administration or intrinsic cortisol had a beneficial effect to reduce anxiety and insomnia in MG patients. In the PSL patients there was no significant correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and anxiety/insomnia scores Fig. 7B end. However there was a significantly negative correlation between the anxiety/insomniascores evaluated by GHQ-28 and corticotropin levels in plasma r  j0.47 P  0.023 Fig. 7A. end. DISCUSSION. In this study we investigated the function of the pituitaryadrenocortical system in 18 MG patients who were treated with PSL compared with 29 MG patients who were treated without PSL. The number of subjects was not enough to show the function of the pituitary-adrenocortical system of the MG patients however our results may provide new insights on the importance of GC treatment for MG patients. Cortisols play an important role in the successful adaptation to stress. Chronic excess 2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins www.clinicalneuropharm.com 33Copyright  2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins.
vity19 and then reduce those stress responses. Both corticotropin and cortisol concentrations in the PSL group were significantly lower than those in the PSLj group Fig. 1 end. However these levels were not lower than the reference range of healthy subjects corticotropin 7.4Y55.7 pg/mL cortisol 4.0Y18.3 mg/dL during GC therapy. We also confirmed that their emotional state was not severe according to the results of SF-36 or GHQ-28 in this study. Patients who were being treated with psychoactive medications were not included in our study.Furthermore we also evaluated their QOL by using the GHQ-28 and the SF-36. The GHQ-28 is known as an adequate questionnaire for measuring the psychological aspects of QOL. We also examined health-related QOL using the SF-36 in the present study. However there were no differences between these groups Fig. 4 end. The SF-36 has been designed to assess the im-pact of disease on perceived well-being and consists of the PCS and MCS. Two independent studies have previously used the SF-36 questionnaire to examine the health-related QOL in MG patients with varying degrees of disease severity.1020 We confirmed that SF-36 PCS was significantly negatively correlated with the QMG scores r j0.649 P G 0.0001 data not shown.
When we compared the QMG score which is a standardized quantitative strength scoring system developed specifically for MG among the MG patients who were treated with PSL and those who were treated without PSL no significant difference was observed Table 1. It means that there was no significant difference in the efficacy of the treatment on the physical status between these groups.In our study a significant negative correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and anxiety and insomnia of GHQ-28 was observed Fig. 6A end. Similar to the intrinsic adrenal cortisol GC therapy may have possibly regulated the HPA activity negatively in MG patients. As shown in Figure 5 18 MG patients34 www.clinicalneuropharm.com  2012 Lippincott Williams  WilkinsCopyright  2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.who had been treated with PSL had less anxiety and insomnia or depression than the 29 MG patients who had been treated without PSL by using the GHQ-28.
In general depression and anxiety tended to be more common in women than in men. As shown in Table 1 the number of women in the PSL group was the same as that in the PSLj group although the number of subjects in the PSL group was fewer than that in the PSLj group. As such we compared the corticotropin or cortisol levels between men and women but no difference was observed. Next we investigated the influence of GC treatment on the emotional state of the female MG patients. Although there was no difference in corticotropin or cortisol levels between the PSLj and PSL groups 13 female MG patients who had been treated with PSL had also less anxiety and insomnia than the 13 female MG patients who had been treated without PSL as estimated by the GHQ-28 P  0.003 data not shown. This result was similar as to those of all study participants.In MG patients depression has been reported to be caused by the stress of the disease.21 Consequently in 1 study up to 20% of MG patients were initially diagnosed as having a psychiatric disorder.22 In healthy subjects corticotropin levels significantly correlated with cortisol level.23 However as shown in Figure 2A no significant correlation was observed between corticotropin and cortisol levels in plasma of MG patients who were not .
A dissociation between plasma cortisol and corticotropin levels has also been previously demonstrated in response to both psychological and physiological stress.24 Although corticotropin continues to be the dominant factor playing a significant modulating influence on the axis arginine vasopressin endotheline25 macrophage-migration factor26 and a variety of cytokines such as IL-627 have also been included as factors. Simon28 reported that treatment with corticotropin had a beneficial effect in MG in 1935. In a study of more than 100 patients with severe refractory MG who were given corticotropin good improvement was reported.29 Consequently we observed a significant negative correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and daily dosage of PSL r  j0.38 P  0.03 Fig. 3B end. Both corticotropin and cortisol concentrations in the PSL group were significantly lower than those in the PSLj group Fig. 1 end. However the corticotropin and cortisol levels of the MG patients were not lower than the reference range for the healthy subjects during GC therapy. In MG patients who were treated with PSL there was a significantly negative correlation between the anxiety/insomnia scores evaluated by GHQ-28 and corticotropin levels in plasma r  j0.47 P  0.023 Fig. 7B end.
7A the corticotropin levels in plasma significantly correlated with the cortisol levels in plasma Fig. 2B.From these observations we concluded that low-dose GC treatment complemented the pituitary-adrenocortical system and improved the psychological state in MG patients. Brief Communications Mycophenolate mofetil A safe and promising immunosuppressant in neuromuscular diseases. Mycophenolate mofetil A safe and promising immunosuppressant in neuromuscular diseases Article abstractThe authors report the use mycophenolate mofetil MM in the treatment of neuromuscular diseases. Thirty-eight patients 32 with MG three with inflammatory myopathy and three with chronic acquired demyelinating neuropathy were treated with MM for an average duration of 12 months. All patients tolerated MM without major side effects. Twenty-four patients improved either in their functional status or in their ability to reduce corticosteroid dose. Mean time to improvement was 5 months. Brief Communications. Mycophenolate mofetil A safe andpromising immunosuppressantin neuromuscular diseasesArticle abstractThe authors report the use mycophenolate mofetil MM in the treatment of neuromuscular diseases.
All patients tolerated MM without major side effects. Twenty-four patients improved either in their functional status or in their ability to reduce corticosteroid dose. Mean time to improvement was 5 months.NEUROLOGY 2001569496V. Chaudhry MD D.R. Cornblath MD J.W. Griffin MD R. OBrien MD PhD and D.B. Drachman MDImmune-mediated neuromuscular diseases are currently treated with several immunosuppressive agents including corticosteroids azathioprine cyclosporine-A cyclophosphamide methotrexate and interferon.1-3 In spite of this variety of choices the risk/benefit ratios of these medications are variable in individual patients and more favorable alternatives are needed. Mycophenolate mofetil MM inhibits proliferation of T and B lymphocytes selectively by blocking purine synthesis only in lymphocytes.4 It has been successfully used for treatment of allogeneic transplants5 and other immune-mediated diseases.6-8 Side effects are modest and include diarrhea abdominal pain nausea peripheral edema drug-induced fever and leukopenia. We assessed MM in the treatment of neuromuscular diseases.Patients and methods. Thirty-eight patients being treated with MM were retrospectively analyzed. The demographics of the patients and details of their treatments are outlined in table 1.
Thirty-five patients were receiving other immunomodulating agents including corticosteroids 32 azathioprine 8 cyclosporine-A 4 methotrexate 3 and plasma exchange or IV immunoglobulin 10. Fifteen myasthenic patients had undergone thymectomy. Four patients received only MM. Patients received MM 1 g twice daily by mouth for an average of 12 months range 3 to 36 months. Improvement was defined as either 1 grade improvement in functional status9 as defined in table 2 or a reduction in the required dose of steroids by 10 mg every other day. Improvement by 1 grade in any of the individual parameters of the scalelisted in the columns in table 2 was considered to be improvement in the functional status. If patients were taking an alternative formulation of steroids prednisolone or deflazacort or daily dose treatments their equivalent every other day prednisone dose was calculated.For nonmyasthenic patients the functional status was determined using the functional impairment activities of daily living ADL or muscle strength Medical Research Council MRC grades 0 to 5 columns see table 2. The MRC score of the weakest muscle was used as an index for assessing the response to MM. Monthly monitoring of complete blood count was performed on all patients.
Overall 24 63% patients benefited from the treatment 22 with MG one with CIDP and one with IM measured either as improved functional status 20 or as a corticosteroid-sparing effect 17 see table 1. The mean time to improvement was 5 months range 2 to 12 months. Patients with MG comprised the largest group 32 and 69% of these patients improved while taking MM. This included three patients who were taking MM as their only immunosuppressive medication. The addition of MM allowed a reduction in the steroid dose requirement in 50% and improvement in the functional grade in 59% of the patients with MG figure A and B. Ten patients 31% who have been taking MM for an average of 8 months 3 to 17 months range have failed to show any benefit. These patients continue taking MM and are being followed up to evaluate a possible delayed response. Myasthenic patients who benefited from the treatment had been taking MM for a longer period of time mean 13 versus 8 months than those who did not benefit and the patients with a more favorable response had a diagnosis of MG established for a shorter time mean 7.5 versus 14 years than the patients who failed to show benefit with MM.Among the three patients with inflammatory myopathy IM one patient who had polymyositis improved.
One of three patients with From the Department of Neurology Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine Baltimore MD. Received May 30 2000. Accepted in final form August 15 2000. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. V end. Chaudhry 600 N. Wolfe Street Mey 6-119 Baltimore MD 21287 e-mail vchaudhjhmi.eduSee also page 9794 Copyright  2001 by AAN Enterprises Inc.chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy has also shown improvement in strength as well as a reduced requirement of methylprednisolone dosage.No patient had major side effects. Three patients had mild gastrointestinal discomfort one with diarrhea. In one patient the dose of MM had to be reduced to 1 gram per day 500 mg twice daily because of gastrointestinal side effects. One patient had depressed mood which she attributed to MM. Four patients misunderstood the dose of MM and mistakenly took only 500 mg twice daily for 2 months before the dose was corrected to 1 gram twice daily. All patients had monthly monitoring of complete blood count none developed leukopenia. No patient discontinued the medication because of side effects. Although not a side effect there was considerable concern by several patients regarding the cost of the medication.Discussion.
Lymphocytes only use the de novo pathway whereas other cells use both pathways. The de novo pathway is competitively regulated. It is down regulated by adenosine nucleotides and up regulated by guanosine nucleotides. Mycophenolic acid blocks inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase an enzyme that is responsible for conversion of inosine monophosphate to guanosine monophosphate hence synthesis of guanosine is blocked and synthesis of adenosine is enhanced both resulting in inhibition of purine synthesis only in the lymphocytes.4The safety and efficacy of MM in combination with corticosteroids and cyclosporine-A for the prevention of renal rejection has been shown in randomized double-blind multicenter trials.5 It . has also been reported to be of benefit in other immune-mediated diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis Crohns disease and systemic lupus erythematosus.6-8 The principal adverse reactions associated with MM include diarrhea leukopenia sepsis vomiting and a higher frequency of certain types of infections.
Over two-thirds of the patients with MG showed improvement in functional status or were able to lower the dosage of corticosteroids. This included some patients who were taking MM as the only treatment and others who had remained refractory to conventional agents. Patients who did not respond in our study were treated on average for a shorter time period and had longer duration of disease than the responders. Although the drug waswell tolerated in other neuromuscular diseases as well we are not able to comment on its effectiveness in these conditions in view of the small numbers and the otherwise refractory patients included in this study.There has been only one previous report of the use of MM in MG in a 26-year-old woman who had MG for 12 years and improved rapidly while taking MM.10 In comparison to this case report the onset of action in our patients is rather delayed.
of action it is efficacious and has the advantage over corticosteroids azathioprine and cyclosporine-A in that the undesirable side effects of weight gain cushingoid features hyperglycemia bone loss increased irritability insomnia cataracts liver toxicity idiosyncratic reactions nephrotoxicity and hypertension are absent.Our study is limited by the fact that most patients were on concomitant medications and the study was retrospective. However given the relative paucity of adverse effects and this preliminary open-label data other confirmatory studies and randomized controlled trials are warranted. Vitamin D deficiency in patients with myasthenia gravis and improvement of fatigue after supplementation of vitamin D3 a pilot study. Received 9 March 2012 Accepted 24 April 2012 Background Myasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disorder. Vitamin D has important roles both in the autoimmune response and in skeletal muscles. We determined the levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin D 25OHD in patients with MG and in healthy subjects to determine whether vitamin D deficiency is present in MG and whether vitamin D supplementation has beneficial effects on fatigue.
MG composite score MGC assessed fatigue. 13 patients with MG without previous vitamin D3 supplementation were started on vitamin D3 supplementation cholecalciferol 800 IU/day with a followup examination after 2.510 months mean 6 months. Results Patients with MG without pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation N  16 had a mean MGC of 4.5 and lower plasma 25OHD levels mean 51  19 nM than healthy controls 69  21 nM P  0.017. Seventeen patients had pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation because of corticosteroid treatment and their mean 25OHD was 79  22 nM and mean MGC was 5.5. In the 13 patients who received cholecalciferol 25OHD was overall increased at followup with 22% P  0.033 and MGC score improved with 38% P  0.05. Conclusions Plasma 25OHD levels are significantly lower in patients with MG compared with healthy controls. As vitamin D has beneficial effects on the autoimmune response and on fatigue score in patients with MG we suggest monitoring this parameter in patients with MG and supplementation with vitamin D3 when 25 OHD levels are low. Vitamin D deficiency in patients with myasthenia gravis and improvement of fatigue after supplementation of vitamin D3 a pilot study. H end. Askmarka L. Haggardb I. Nygrena and A. R end. Pungab end.
Vitamin D has important roles both in the autoimmune response and in skeletal muscles. We determined the levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin D 25OHD in patients with MG and in healthy subjects to determine whether vitamin D deficiency is present in MG and whether vitamin D supplementation has beneficial effects on fatigue. Methods Plasma levels of 25OHD were analyzed in 33 patients with MG 22 males mean age 58 years and in 50 healthy age- and sex-matched blood donors without vitamin D3 medication. MG composite score MGC assessed fatigue. 13 patients with MG without previous vitamin D3 supplementation were started on vitamin D3 supplementation cholecalciferol 800 IU/day with a followup examination after 2.510 months mean 6 months. Results Patients with MG without pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation N  16 had a mean MGC of 4.5 and lower plasma 25OHD levels mean 51  19 nM than healthy controls 69  21 nM P  0.017. Seventeen patients had pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation because of corticosteroid treatment and their mean 25OHD was 79  22 nM and mean MGC was 5.5. In the 13 patients who received cholecalciferol 25OHD was overall increased at followup with 22% P  0.033 and MGC score improved with 38% P  0.05.
As vitamin D has beneficial effects on the autoimmune response and on fatigue score in patients with MG we suggest monitoring this parameter in patients with MG and supplementation with vitamin D3 when 25 OHD levels are low. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune neuromuscular disorder in which autoantibodies are directed against muscle receptors in most cases the acetylcholine receptors AChRs 85% 1 or muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK 10% 2. Thymus hyperplasia is common in AChR antibody-seropositive AChR patients with MG and thus T cells are considered to play an important role in the onset and course of the disease 3. The immune-regulatory effect of vitamin D is hypothesized to reside in an increased amount of regulatory T cells and this has been confirmed through recent studiesin healthy individuals 4. In mice with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis EAMG peripherally circulating regulatory T cells are important for the disease process through controlling self-reactive T cells and thus inhibition of the autoimmune response 5.Insufficient or deficient levels of vitamin D have been reported in a high percentage of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus SLE 6.
One recent randomized doubleblind placebo-controlled trial with vitamin D3 as addition to treatment with interferon beta in patients with multiple sclerosis MS showed a clear reduction in MS disease severity 9. Nevertheless there are yet no general guidelines on vitamin D supplementation regimen Correspondence A. R end. Punga Department of Clinical Neurophysiology Institute of Neuroscience Uppsala University Hospital 75185 Uppsala Sweden tel. 46 18 6113433 fax 46 18 504768 e-mail annarostedtpungagmail.com. 2012 The Authors European Journal of Neurology  2012 EFNS 1European Journal of Neurology 2012 doi10.1111/j.1468-1331.2012.03773.xin modulating immunological homeostasis in autoimmune disorders. Further studies on vitamin D status in autoimmune neuromuscular disorders are lacking even though vitamin D receptors are present on muscles and 25OHD deficiency causes muscle weakness and myalgia 10. Additionally vitamin D has direct effects on muscle regeneration 11.
Further we aimed at determining the effects on clinical fatigue score before and after therapeutic supplementation with vitamin D3. Material and methods. end. Participants. Patients with MG were asked to participate in the study as they came on regular visits to the outpatient neurology clinic during the course of the year between December 2010 and February 2012. Diagnostic criteria according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA 13 included clinical muscle fatigue and neurophysiological evidence of disturbed neuromuscular transmission repetitive nerve stimulation and/or singlefiber electromyography in conjunction with the presence of either serum antibodies against AChR or MuSK.Muscle weakness and fatigue of patients with MG were assessed according to the MG composite MGC scale 14 and each patient was given a total score ranging from 0 no . myasthenic weakness to maximum 50 points worse possible myasthenic weakness in all assessed muscles. Medication at the time of study was noted in all patients 17 patients had preexisting supplementation with vitamin D and calcium as osteoporosis prophylaxis owing to concomitant corticosteroid treatment whereas 16 patients were unsupplemented.
MGC scores were later extracted separately from the patient charts into a database LH.Body mass index BMI was calculated according to the standard formula kg/m2. Normal weight was defined as body mass index BMI of 1925. Overweight pre-obesity was defined as BMI of 2530 and obesity was defined as BMI of 3035. Further severe obesity was defined as BMI of 3540 and extreme obesity as BMI > 40. Ethics end. All subjects gave their written informed consent to participate in the study which was approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board of Uppsala Dnr 2010/446. Procedures. end. Blood sampling and CLIA. Plasma from 50 age- and sex-matched healthy blood donors without prescribed vitamin D3 medication 25 females aged 3571 years mean age 52  11 years and 25 males aged 3674 years mean age 51  9 years was used as reference data in comparison with the patient data of 25OHD. All samples were collected at the end of October 2011.Quantitative determination of 25OHD in plasma was performed with a LIASON analysis DiaSorin Inc Stillwater MN USA through chemiluminescens immunoanalysis CLIA standard analysis for vitamin D at Uppsala University Hospital. Severe 25OHD deficiency was defined as <25 nM mild deficiency as 2574 nM and optimal level as 75250 nM established by DiaSorin.
Statistical methods. The nonparametric MannWhitney test was used for assessment of mean values in continuous variables of independent samples including seasonal variations in 25 OHD values. Spearmans rank order correlations were applied to measure associations between two continuous variables. Related samples Wilcoxon signed rank test was applied to calculate differences in 25OHD level and MGC before and after therapeutic supplementation with vitamin D3. All analyses were performed using SPSS for Windows 16.0 SPSS Inc. Chicago IL USA and the significance level was set atP < 0.05. Results end. Clinical characteristics and treatment statusThirty-three patients were included in the study 22 males mean age 59  16 years and 11 females mean age 57  12 years. MG composite score in the entire patient group ranged from 0 to maximum 19 points mean 5  5 points and disease duration was 037 years mean 2012 The Authors European Journal of Neurology  2012 EFNS European Journal of Neurology9.9  9.3 years. The clinical characteristics and therapeutic regimen are displayed in Table 1. Three patients did not have any current MG medication and four patients had only symptomatic medication acetylcholinesterase inhibitors pyridostigmine Mestinon with a daily dose ranging from 240 mg to 480 mg.
Amongst the patients with corticosteroid treatment six patients additionally had azathioprin Imurel one patient had both azathioprin and cyclosporin Sandimmun and another patient had Takrolimus Prograf. Two patients had only azathioprin and one patient had only cyclosporin.Seventeen patients the majority on corticosteroid treatment had pre-existing supplementation therapy with Calcichew-D3-Forte calciumcarbonate and calciferol 800IU/d  16 400IU/d  1 to avoid calcium and vitamin D deficiency according to local guidelines.Low 25OHD levels in unsupplemented patients with MG whereas supplemented patients with MG have significantly higher 25OHDTo avoid treatment bias the patient group with MG was su. bdivided into patients with pre-existing D3 substitution N  17 calciumcarbonate and calciferol and those without D3 supplementation N  16. Disease duration did not differ between the groups Inthe supplemented group this was 9.3  9.4 years and in the non-supplemented group 10.1  9.4 years. Mild vitamin D deficiency 2574 nM was found in 14 88% of patients without pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation compared with 62% of the healthy controls.
1 end. Calcium and parathormone PTH which are influenced by vitamin D levels were measured.Mean value of calcium in the non-supplemented patient group was 2.30 nM and none of the patients had calcium deficiency. PTH ranged from 3.77.8 nM and 4 patients with concomitant mild vitamin D deficiency had increased PTH levels ranging from 6.97.8. Phosphate was normal in all patients. Mean value of IL-6 was 0.8 ng/l and two patients No. 6 and 7 had elevated IL-6. The patient with highest IL-6 8.2 ng/l also had the lowest 25OHD level 28 nM. Clinical MGC scores in the non-supplemented patient group ranged from 0 to 13 with a mean score of 4.5. No correlation was observed between myasthenic weakness as measured by MGC score and 25OHD level Spearman rank  0.30 P  0.80. Further no correlation was found between age and vitamin D Spearman rank  0.02 P  0.91. No between-season sampling differences were observed for the 25OHD levels in the patients with MG winter N  14 66  26 nM spring N  9 62  27 nM summer N  1 66 nM and fall N  9 58  23 nM P  0.40.In the group of 17 patients who had pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation this had been initiated at least 6 months before blood sampling.
Mean value of 25OHD in this group was 79  22 nM range 38117 nM which had a trend of being higher than the healthy control group P  0.058. However the treated patient group with MG had significantly higher values of vitamin D than the non-supplemented patient group with MG P  0.001 Fig. 1 end. Body mass index BMI was measured because it is known that vitamin D is fat soluble and therefore bound in its inactive form in the adipose tissues which in turn inhibits the transformation to the active form of vitamin D 15. We were able to measure BMI at follow-up visits in 29 patients 1 patient was abroad 1 patient had died and 2 patients were unavailable. In this cohort a total of 24 patients 83% had a BMI > 25. Ten patients 36% were considered overweight BMI 2530 10 patients 34% were defined as obese BMI 3035 1 patient 3% as severely obese BMI 3540 and 3 patients 10% patients as extremely obese. Only 5 patients 17% were considered having normal BMI BMI 1925 Table 1. Nevertheless there was no correlation between BMI and 25OH levels Spearman R  0.2 P  0.51.Treatment with vitamin D3 improves 25OHD levels and MGC scoreIn the group of patients without initial vitamin D3 supplementation medication with Calcichew-D3 Forte containing 800 IU of vitamin D3/day was initiated.
The mean level of vitamin D before treatment in this group was 51  20 nM and after treatment the mean value of 25OHD was 62  12 nM. Vitamin D levels were significantly increased in 10 of 13 patients Table 2 with an overall increase of 21% P  0.033. The mean MGC score before treatment was 4.5 range 013 and at follow-up MGC score had a mean of 2.5 range 09 Table 2. Thus this resulted in an overall improvement reduction of MGC score in 5 patients unchanged best possible MGC MGC 0 in 3 patients and unchanged clinical status in 4 patients. A slight worsening was seen in 1 patient. The overall improvement in this group of MGC was 38% P  0.05. Amongst the 5 patients who improved their MGC score patients no. 7 10 14 and 15 had unchanged medication since at least one year. Patient no. 18 had started high-dose corticosteroids Deltison 2012 The Authors European Journal of Neurology  2012 EFNS European Journal of Neurology75 mg/day just before the initial examination and at the time of follow-up 3 months later he had Deltison in a dose of 50 mg/day. Discussion. This is the first report on vitamin D deficiency in patients with MG.
The metabolically active form of vitamin D 25OHD is believed to exert its immune-regulatory effect by increasing the amount of regulatory T cells 4. The number of CD4/CD25 Tregs in the thymus of patients with MG is unchanged however these MG thymus cells possess severe functional defect in their regulatory activity 17. Experimental studies have revealed that 25OHD is able to skew the T-cell compartment into a more anti-inflammatory and regulated state with inhibition of Th1 and Th17 cells and promotion of Th2 and Treg cells 18. In patients with MS compromised Treg function is believed to be critically involved in the disease process and in these patients high 25OHD levels are associated with an improved Treg function and with skewing of the Th1/ Th2 balance toward Th2 19. Hence we speculate that 25OHD might have an important role in the function of Tregs also in patients with MG because MG is considered a CD4 T-cell-dependent disease.Despite the presence of vitamin D receptors on muscles 25OHD levels did not correlate with the myasthenic weakness as measured by MGC score although this score may not be detailed enough to discover subtle correlations.
As the MGC score does not directly correlate with autoimmune activity we analyzed IL-6 which has been found to be a crucial factor for the induction of the EAMG disease phenotype in mice 20. However in our cohort of MG patients IL-6 was not generally increased with the exception of two patients with concomitant vitamin D deficiency. A possible explanation for the low IL-6 levels could be that the vast majority of patients were on chronic immunosuppression at the time of analysis.Vitamin D deficiency has been identified in patients with a variety of autoimmune diseases such as SLE 6 RA7 MS 8 and narcolepsy 21. The previous studies in patients with RA and SLE have shown the important effects of vitamin D both as a marker of disease activity and as treatment. Additionally a recent randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial with vitamin D3 as addition to treatment with interferon beta-1b in patients with MS showed a clear reduction in disease severity 9. Similarly vitamin D supplementation in our cohort of patients with MG improved MGC score in most patients. The considerable improvement of MGC amongst the patients where vitamin D3 supplementation was initiated in this study indicates a beneficial response to active vitamin D in myasthenic muscle fatigue.
Nevertheless the clinicians who performed the MGC status were not aware of previous MGC scores or 25OHD levels at the time of the clinical examination.Considering that cholecalciferol is harmless in therapeutic levels compared with many other medications supplementation in cases of low vitamin D in patients with MG and in patients with neuromuscular disorders is recommended. Today there is no biomarker in MG that correlates with disease amongst patients therefore the thought prior to this study was that 25OHD could potentially serve as a biomarker in MG. Nevertheless as this study did not reveal an obvious correlation between myasthenic fatigue and 25OHD further placebo-controlled clinical studies would have to be performed to confirm the potential role of 25OHD as biomarker in MG.Measured levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin D 25OHD and clinical myasthenia gravis composite MGC score in 13 patients before and after treatment with 800 IU/day of vitamin D3. The difference in 25 OHD before and after supplementation is shown in nM. The difference in MGC is inverse that is an improved MGC status is shown as and worsening in MGC status as  . aN.B end.
On the basis of the study design patients were sampled as they attended regular visits to the neurology clinic and hence the season of analysis ranged from December 2010 to February 2012. With the current study design regular visits to the outpatient clinic were more common in autumn and winter seasons. Hence we chose to sample the healthy blood donors in late autumn in the end of October. When calculating de-seasonalized vitamin D levels by regressing the measured 25OHD levels this plot revealed comparable levels throughout the months in the patient group with MG. From previous studies 22 we know that from 25 lg 1000 IU/d 25OHD values increase with approximately 25 nM in healthy males. Intriguingly a therapeutic substitution of 800 IU/day vitamin D3 in the MG patient population was not sufficient to obtain significantly higher 25 OHD levels than those in the non-supplemented healthy controls. One explanation would be that active vitamin D is needed to keep the autoimmune response in balance by increasing the Treg function of self-reactive T-cell destruction.A high BMI has been shown to correlate with low levels of 25OHD 15 because inactive vitamin D is bound to the adipose tissue.
Nevertheless there was no correlation between 25OHD levels and BMI in our MG cohort. As the majority of patients with MG are on corticosteroid treatment the risk of osteoporosis is considerably higher in the case of low vitamin D and thus it seems reasonable to take into account the vitamin D status in particular in these patients. This is supported by a previous study showing that the odds of having 25OHD deficiency were 2-fold higher in those subjects who reported steroid use compared with those without corticosteroids and thus steroid use is independently associated with vitamin D deficiency 12. Taken together this suggests the need for screening of 25OHD and repletion with vitamin D3 in patients on chronic steroid treatment in autoimmune neuromuscular disorders including patients with MG.In conclusion this is the first report on vitamin D deficiency in patients with MG. We recommend monitoring of vitamin D status in patients with MG to avoid direct negative effects on the muscles or autoimmune response. Additionally vitamin D3 supplementation can serve as a symptomatic treatment to optimize MG status as well as minimizing future risk of osteoporosis secondarily to vitamin D deficiency. Acknowledgements.
The study was supported by Lars Hiertas memorial foundation Selanders foundation and Uppsala University postdoctoral fellowship to ARP from BB Hedstroms foundation. Disclosure of Conflict of interest. The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest. Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia Steroids Only When Compelled. M YASTHENIA gravis MG preferentially involves the ocular muscles. Ocular myasthenia manifests as weakness of the levator palpebrae superioris leading to ptosis or the extraocular muscles producing diplopia. The precise reasons for this predilection are poorly understood. As with all therapies for MG there are few well-controlled studies of treatments of ocular myasthenia. Immunosuppressive therapies in particular the corticosteroid prednisone are the mainstay of treatment for generalized MG that compromises an individuals daily activities. Prednisone is also commonly used for ocular myasthenia.
d with steroids. We recognize the physical and psychological impact of visual impairment and cosmetic alterations in patients with ocular myasthenia. Cholinesterase inhibitors are the first line of therapy for all forms of MG and may alleviate ptosis and diplopia approximately half of patients with MG have a satisfactory response. However other treatment options are often overlooked. Ptosis can be corrected by placement of crutches in the patients spectacles and ptosis tape elevates the eyelid droop. Diplopia is always eliminated with eye patching a clip-on occluder or a frosted lens however patients may complain of diminution of the visual field and the cosmetic effect of patching may be undesirable. Cosmetically acceptable occlusion can be achieved with an occluding contact lens or a 10-diopter-plus lens. Prisms are usually ineffectual because of the variability in eye muscle strength. Most patients do well with nonpharmacological therapies and adapt to diplopia by closing one eye when they find single vision necessary. Steroids may not resolve the ocular manifestations.
When steroids are effective it may be impossible to wean the patient from them without an exacerbation of the symptoms the patient may then be committed to lifelong treatment. At the doses used to treat ocular myasthenia steroids almost always produce some adverse effects. Although sleep disturbance weight gain and altered appearance are usually well tolerated more serious complications occur. Sommer et al used steroids to treat 45 patients with ocular myasthenia more than a quarter of these patients had moderate adverse effects and 2 developed diabetes or psychosis. In all likelihood the reported frequency of steroid adverse effects is underestimated in studies of MG. For example osteoporosis is accelerated in all patients receiving doses of prednisone commonly used for ocular myasthenia and bone loss is greatest in the first 6 months of therapy. Steroids may exacerbate preclinical hypertension cataract formation and glucose intolerance. Therefore even a short 3to 6-month course of prednisone treatment is not risk free. Studies of patients with ocular myasthenia consistently show that the risk of generalization is highest in the first 2 years of onset and decreases substantially thereafter.
In studies prior to steroid use or in which steroids were not used 11% to 30% of cases did not generalize. Of 32 patients with ocular myasthenia treated with steroids by Kupersmith et al only 3 developed generalized disease after 2 years of follow-up. Sommer et al used various combinations of prednisone azathioprine and thymectomy for treatment of ocular myasthenia 12% of patients developed generalized disease while 64% of cases not treated with immunosuppressive therapies generalized. The study is compromised by the absence of both follow-up times and an analysis of the differences between the groups treated with immune and nonimmune therapy. Despite these concerns there is a suggestion that immunosuppression may reduce or at least mask the frequency of generalization. An additional consideration however is the rate of remission. As many as 10% of patients with MG not taking immunosuppressive therapy including those with isolated ocular manifestations will go into clinical remission. Whether steroids reduce the chance of remission needs to be evaluated.
Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia. end. Steroids Only When Compelled. end. Henry J end. Kaminski MD Robert B. Daroff MD. M YASTHENIA gravisMG preferen-tially involves theocular muscles.1Ocular myasthenia manifests as weakness of the levator palpebrae superioris leading to ptosis or the extraocular muscles producing diplopia. The precise reasons for this predilection are poorly understood.23 As with all therapies for MG there are few well-controlled studies of treatments of ocular myasthenia.4 Immunosuppressive therapies in particular the corticosteroid prednisone are the mainstay of treatment for generalized MG that compromises an individuals daily activities. Prednisone is also commonly used for ocular myasthenia. However 4 factors should be considered prior to the use of steroids for patients with MG isolated to the ocular muscles 1 Could the patients symptoms improve with safer forms of therapy 2 Will steroid treatment lead to resolution of symptoms 3 Does the severity of the symptoms warrant the risk of steroid adverse effects 4 Do steroids reduce the chance of generalization We consider each of these questions and reach the conclusion that only the occasional case of ocular myasthenia should be treate.
Cholinesterase inhibitors are the first line of therapy for all forms of MG and may alleviate ptosis and diplopia approximately half of patients with MG have a satisfactory response.56 Howeverother treatment options are often overlooked. Ptosis can be corrected by placement of crutches in the patients spectacles and ptosis tape elevates the eyelid droop. Diplopia is always eliminated with eye patching a clip-on occluder or a frosted lens however patients may complain of diminution of the visual field and the cosmetic effect of patching may be undesirable. Cosmetically acceptable occlusion can be achieved with an occluding contact lens or a 10-diopter-plus lens.7 Prisms are usually ineffectual because of the variability in eye muscle strength. Most patients do well with nonpharmacological therapies and adapt to diplopia by closing one eye when they find single vision necessary.Steroids may not resolve the ocular manifestations. Our experience mirrors others that steroids are not always effective58 indeed steroids seem less effective for the treatment of ocular myasthenia than for generalized MG9 suggesting that the ocular variety may be inherently more resistant to immunosuppressive therapy.
Although sleep disturbance weight gain and altered appearance are usually well tolerated more serious complications occur. Sommer et al6 used steroids to treat 45 patients with ocular myasthenia more than a quarter of these patients had moderate adverse effects and 2 developed diabetes or psychosis. In all likelihood the reported frequency of steroid adverse effects is underestimated in studies of MG. For example osteoporosis is accelerated in all patients receiving doses of pred-nisone commonly used for ocular myasthenia and bone loss is greatest in the first 6 months of therapy.14 Steroids may exacerbate preclinical hypertension cataract formation and glucose intolerance. Therefore even a short 3- to 6-month course of prednisone treatment is not risk free.Studies of patients with ocular myasthenia consistently show that the risk of generalization is highest in the first 2 years of onset and decreases substantially thereafter.7910 The rate of generalization varies among series but the best estimate is that approximately 40% to 50% of cases will remain purely ocular.9 In studies prior to steroid use or in which steroids were not used 11% to 30% of cases did not gen.
Sommer et al6 used various combinations of prednisone azathioprine and thymectomy for treatment of ocular myasthenia 12% of patients developed generalized disease while 64% of cases not treated with immunosuppressive therapies generalized. The study6 is compromised by the absence of both follow-up times and an analysis of the differences between the groups treated with immune and nonimmune therapy. Despite these concerns there is a suggestion that immunosuppression may reduce or at least mask the frequency of generalization. An additional consideration however is the rate of remission.1516 As many as 10% of patients with MG not taking immunosuppressive therapy including those with isolated ocular manifestations will go into clinical remission. Whether steroids reduce the chance of remission needs to be evaluated.The treatment of any patient with MG be it generalized or ocuFrom the Department of Neurology Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Cleveland University Hospitals of Cleveland Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine Cleveland Ohio.ARCH NEUROL / VOL 57 MAY 2000 WWW.ARCHNEUROL.COM 7522000 American Medical Association. All rights reserved. Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a University of St.
Our approach to the patient with ocular myasthenia is to explain the potential evolution of the disease and treatment options including their complications. We institute nonpharmacological treatments and cholinesterase inhibitors and in most patients these provide satisfactory relief of symptoms. In about half of the patients with newly diagnosed ocular myasthenia generalized weakness will prompt institution of immunosuppressive therapies. Only in limited situations are we compelled to use steroids for isolated ocular muscle weakness10 and in these cases it is always the patient who demands the treatment. Young women are often so cosmetically distressed by their ptosis or strabismus that we are convinced to start steroid therapy. Other indications are bilateral ptosis unsatisfactorily relieved by crutches or tape and bilateral severe ophthalmoplegia. Bilateral ptosis precludes useful vision. Severe ophthalmoplegia necessitates head thrusts to achieve vi-sual refixations and seriously impedes quality of life.
Kaminski MD Department of Neurology University Hospitals of Cleveland 11100 Euclid Ave Cleveland OH 44106 e-mail hjk3po.cwru.edu.REFERENCES1. GrobDArsuraELBrunnerNGNambaT.Thecourse ofmyastheniagravisandtherapiesaffectingoutcome. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1987505472-499. 2 end. Kaminski H. Acetylcholine receptor epitopes in ocular myasthenia. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998841 309-321. 3 end. Kaminski HJ Maas E Spiegel P Ruff RL. Why are eye muscles frequently involved by myasthenia gravis Neurology. 1990401663-1669. 4 end. Rowland LP. Contoversies about the treatment ofmyasthenia gravis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 198043644-659. 5 end. Evoli A Tonali P Bartoccioni E LoMonaco M. Ocular myasthenia diagnostic and therapeutic problems. Acta Neurol Scand. 19887731-35. 6 end. Sommer N Sigg B Melms A et al. Ocular myasthenia gravis response to long-term immunosuppressive treatment. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 199762156-162. 7 end. Oosterhuis H. Myasthenia Gravis. Groningen the Netherlands Groningen Neurological Press 1997. 8 end. Kupersmith MJ Moster M Bhuiyan S Warren F Weinberg H. Beneficial effects of corticosteroids on ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol. 1996 53802-804. 9 end. Bever CT Aquino AV Penn AS Lovelace RE Rowland LP. Prognosis of ocular myasthenia. Ann Neurol. 198314516-519.
Daroff RB. Ocular myasthenia diagnosis and therapy. In Glaser J ed. Neruo-opthalmology. St Louis Mo MosbyYear Book Inc 198062-71. 11 end. Miano MA Bosley TM Heiman-Patterson TD et al. Factors influencing outcome of prednisone dose reduction in myasthenia gravis. Neurology. 1991 41919-921. 12 end. Drachman DB. Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med. 19943301797-1810. 13 end. Sommer N Melms A Weller M Dichgans J. Ocular myasthenia gravis a critical review of clinical and pathophysiological aspects. Doc Ophthalmol. 199384309-333. 14 end. Adachi JD Bensen WG Brown J et al. Intermittent etidronate therapy to prevent corticosteroidinduced osteoporosis. N Engl J Med. 1997337 382-387. 15 end. Grob D end. Course and management of myasthenia gravis. JAMA end. 1953153529-532. 16 end. OosterhuisH.Thenaturalcourseofmyastheniagravis. JNeurolNeurosurgPsychiatry.1989521121-1127. Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia. O CULAR myastheniadistresses. The pa-tients neither seewell nor look theirbest because of ptosis strabismus and diplopia.Agius argues that half of the patients with ocular myasthenia have electromyographic evidence of generalized neuromuscular dysfunction and that most go on to develop generalized weakness especially in the first year.
He believes that failing to do somay set the stage for exacerbations and progression.Kaminski and Daroff point out that steroids are less effective in ocular than generalized myasthenia and that when they are effective it may be impossible to wean the patients fromthemcondemning themto lifelongtreatment.Moreover10%ofpatientsgo intospontaneousremission.The benefits of steroid therapy in ocular myasthenia are uncertain whereas the serious adverse effects are not. It is time for a prospective randomized trial. In the meantime treatment should be individualized as all contributors agree except that Agius is compelled to treat by his own convictions whereas Kaminski andDaroff are always compelled by the patients.Vladimir Hachinski MD DSc London Ontario. Submissions. We invite you to suggest controversies and 3 names of potential authors to write about either side of the issue. Do not feel that you need to exclude yourself. Please communicate with Vladimir Hachinski MD DSc Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences London Health Sciences Centre University Campus 339 Windermere Rd London Ontario Canada N6A 5A5 fax 519 663-3982. e-mail rebecca.nottlhsc.on.ca.ARCH NEUROL / VOL 57 MAY 2000 WWW.ARCHNEUROL.COM 7532000 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Andrews Library User on 05/15/2015. Resolution of Severe Obstructive Sleep Apnea after Treatment of Anti-Muscle Kinase Receptor-Positive Myasthenia Gravis Despite 60-Pound Weight Gain. Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine Vol. 10 No end. 7 2014 Obstructive sleep apnea OSA in patients with myasthenia gravis MG may be caused by reduced pharyngeal dilator muscle activity. We report a patient with anti-muscle kinase receptor MG with severe OSA and hypoventilation that resolved upon successful treatment of MG despite a 60-lb weight gain. 813 Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine Vol. 10 No end. 7 2014Obstructive sleep apnea OSA in patients with myasthenia gravis MG may be caused by reduced pharyngeal dilator muscle activity. We report a patient with anti-muscle kinase receptor MG with severe OSA and hypoventilation that resolved upon successful treatment of MG despite a 60-lb weight gain. Keywords myasthenia gravis obstructive sleep apnea anti-musk antibody hypoventilation Citation Morgenstern M Singas E Zleik B Greenberg H. Resolution of severe obstructive sleep apnea after treatment of anti-muscle kinase receptor-positive myasthenia gravis despite 60-pound weight gain.
However approximately 40% of MG patients who do not have AchR-Abs have anti-muscle kinase receptor antibodies anti-MuSKR-Ab. This likely alters clustering of acetylcholine receptors during neuromuscular junction formation.4 MG has a variable clinical course that may be exacerbated by stress including infection exertion or various drugs that may lead tomyasthenic crisis with respiratory compromise.REPORT OF CASEA 45-year-old female with 6 months of headaches weakness dysarthria dysphagia and 60-pound weight loss BMI 26 kg/m2 was admitted for hypercapnic respiratory failure ABGsupplemental O2 pH 7.27 / PCO2 60 mm Hg / P. O2 99 mm Hg / HCO3- 28 mmol/L. Neurological evaluation showed fatigable diplopia ptosis and bi-facial and genioglossus weakness. Neck fl exor and extensor and proximal extremity muscles were spared. Formal swallowing evaluation confi rmed dysphagia. However AchR-Abs were negative. Electromyography nerve conduction studies and repetitive nerve stimulation no decremental response were not consistent with MG. No defi nitive neurological diagnosis was made. The patient was discharged on nocturnal bilevel positive airway pressure for treatment of persistent hypercapnia ABG after 2 weeks pH 7.34 / PCO2 62 mm Hg / PO2 84 mm Hg / HCO3- 35 mmol/L.
Split-night polysomnography PSG showed OSA with an apnea-hypopnea index AHI of 31/h with T90%  31%. Nocturnal noninvasive ventilation was optimizedResolution of Severe Obstructive Sleep Apnea after Treatment of Anti-Muscle Kinase Receptor-Positive Myasthenia GravisDespite 60-Pound Weight Gain Michael Morgenstern M.D. Effi e Singas M.D. Bashar Zleik M.D. Harly Greenberg M.D. F.A.A.S.M.Division of Pulmonary Critical Care and Sleep Medicine Hofstra North Shore-LIJ School of Medicine New Hyde Park NYwith average volume adjusted pressure support AVAPS to treat OSA and hypoventilation with a targete. d tidal volume of 400 mL EPAP 8 cm H2O IPAPmax 25 IPAPmin 12 cm H2O.Although hypercapnia improved ABG pH 7.38 / PCO2 47 mm Hg / PO2 77 / HCO3- 27 mm Hg fatigue dyspnea and weakness persisted. Subsequent serology revealed antiMuSKR-Abs prompting treatment with plasma exchange maintenance mycophenolate mofetil and prednisone which normalized her neurological exam and muscle weakness.
In MG muscular strength varies based on muscle exertion fl uctuating levels of autoantibodies that affect neuromuscular junction transmission and other factors. The impact of MG may not be uniformly distributed as greater effects are often manifested in specifi c muscle groups.4 In our patient the exacerbation and improvement of MG manifested by development and resolution of fatigable diplopia ptosis bi-facial and genioglossus weakness dysarthria and dysphagia paralleled the course of OSA and hypercapnic respiratory failure. Despite gaining 60 pounds after successful MG treatment OSA and hypercapnia resolved. Only one study reported improvement of OSA after treatment of MG but with thymectomy.1 Our patient represents the fi rst report of OSA resolution after treatment of anti-MuSKR-Abpositive MG.Several studies have shown an increased prevalence of OSA in MG with AchR-Abs.3 In one study of 100 AchR-Ab-positive MG patients 36% had an AHI > 5.2 In contrast a study of 17 D ownl oade dfr omjc sm.a asm .org by 213. 108 end. 2.25 3on Nov embe r23  202 0.F orp erso nal u seo nly. No othe rus esw ithou t per mis sion .C opyr ight 202 0A mer ican Aca dem yof Sle epM edic ine. All righ tsr eser ved.814Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine Vol. 10 No end. 7 2014 end.
AchR-Ab-positive MG patients found no correlation between MG and OSA.3 However these studies did not report antiMuSKR-Ab-positive MG.Anti-MuSKR-Ab occurs in approximately 4% of patients with MG compared with 90% of patients with AchR-Abs. Disease onset can be at any age with female predominance. Weakness can be more severe than in AchR-Ab-positive MG. The diagnosis can be challenging since nerve conduction studies and electromyography are often normal. Further antiMuSKR-Ab MG is associated with distinct patterns of weakness compared to AchR-Ab-positive MG. One type presents with faciopharyngeal weakness. The other is associated with neck extensor respiratory and proximal muscle weakness.4 Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are less effective in this form of MG. Therapeutic response is better with plasma exchange and immunosuppressive therapy.Patients with MG who present with sleep related complaints should be evaluated for OSA and nocturnal hypoventilation. Neurologists and sleep medicine professionals should be aware of the association between MG OSA and hypoventilation and consider testing for Anti-MuSKR-Ab if AchR-Abs are negative. Variations in disease state and antibody types of MG may influence the severity of sleep disordered breathing.
Amino A Shiozawa Z Nagasaka T et al. Sleep apnoea in well-controlledmyasthenia gravis and the effect of thymectomy. J Neurol 199824577-80. 2 end. Nicolle MW Rask S Koopman WJ George CF Adams J Wiebe S. Sleep apneain patients with myasthenia gravis. Neurology 200667140-2. 3 end. Prudlo J Koenig J Ermert S Juhasz J. Sleep disordered breathing in medicallystable patients with myasthenia gravis. Eur J Neurol 200714321-6. 4 end. Guptill J Sanders DB. Update on muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodypositive myasthenia gravis. Curr Opin Neurol 201023530-5.SUBMISSION  CORRESPONDENCE INFORMATION Submitted for publication January 2014 Submitted in final revised form March 2014 Accepted for publication March 2014 Address correspondence to Harly Greenberg M.D. Tel 516 465-3899 Fax 516 616-4124 E-mail hgreenbenshs.eduDISCLOSURE STATEMENT This was not an industry supported study. The authors have indicated no financial conflicts of interest. No off-label or investigational use of medications is discussed.D ownl oade dfr omjc sm.a asm .org by 213. 108 end. 2.25 3on Nov embe r23  202 0.F orp erso nal u seo nly. No othe rus esw ithou t per mis sion .C opyr ight 202 0A mer ican Aca dem yof Sle epM edic ine. All righ tsr eser ved.
We report an 83-year-old man with myasthenia gravis MG who developed respiratory depression after spinal anesthesia for transurethral laser enucleation of the prostate. He became less responsive after complained of dyspnea with a decrease of SpO2 to 83% approximately 13 min after intrathecal administration of 0.5% isobaric bupivacaine 3 ml. With a diagnosis of exacerbation of MG hydrocortisone 100 mg was administered following which both consciousness and spontaneous respiration rapidly improved. Cold sense was observed below the C4 dermatome. We provided general anesthesia without using muscle relaxants until disappearance of the effect of spinal anesthesia. Surgery completed uneventfully and confirmed wearing off the local anesthetics effect. He was discharged without respiratory problems on postoperative 3 day. Vol.12345678901 3Keywords Steroid Non-genomic effects Spinal anesthesia Respiratory failure Myasthenia gravis. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease characterized by the production of autoantibodies against musclespecific receptor tyrosine kinases and acetylcholine receptors within the postsynaptic membrane at the neuromuscular junction. The clinical features of MG include muscle weakness and easy fatigability 1.
In this report we describe a patient with MG who was scheduled for prostate surgery. He developed respiratory depression after spinal anesthesia which was rapidly recovered by steroids. Case presentation. The patient written informed consent was an 83-year-old man height 152cm weight 46kg. Since the age of 81 he required indwelling catheters for urinary retention due toprostatic hyperplasia and underwent transurethral Holmium laser enucleation of the prostate HoLEP. Medical history. He was diagnosed at our hospital with MG at the age of 81 based on the presence of hoarseness dysphagia diplopia and ptosis. The clinical features improved after treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg pulse steroid therapy and tacrolimus and since then was followed up at the Outpatient Department. At the age of 82 he was admitted for aspiration pneumonia which was likely caused by dysphagia and was subsequently treated with IVIg and pulse steroid therapy. He was prescribed 5mg of prednisolone after discharge but he continued to exhibit bilateral ptosis and complain of dysphagia. Although he enjoyed independent living and was able to walk unsupported at home he used a wheelchair whenever he went outside.
Cerebral aneurysms bilateral middle cerebral artery aneurysms were also identified at that time however due to the relatively small size of the aneurysms conservative treatment was considered appropriate. Tamie Takenami takenamimed.kitasato-u.ac.jp1 Department ofAnesthesiology Kitasato University School ofMedicine 1-15-1 Kitasato Sagamihara Kanagawa225-0375 Japan1 3. Preoperative findings. Although the patient was already performed an antibody test immediately before and after operation the value of anti-acetylcholin receptor titer was undetectable. Laboratory data were normal except mild increase of serum creatinine levels 1.23mg/dl and electrocardiography ECG demonstrated complete right bundle branch block left anterior fascicular block and ST-T wave abnormalities. Echocardiography identified inferior wall hypokinesia. Respiratory function tests could not be performed before the scheduled surgery. Intraoperative findings. The patient continued to receive prednisolone and tacrolimus up to 6h before entering the operating room. The use of preanesthetic agents and additional steroid cover were not planned. Spinal-epidural anesthesia from L3/4 was selected using the needle through needle NTN technique.
After insertion of the epidural catheter blood was noted in the catheter-aspirated fluid. Therefore we changed the location of the catheter insertion from L3/4 to L2/3. After turning the patient to the supine position approximately 6min after administration of bupivacaine peripheral oxygen saturation SpO2 started to decrease and to 83% 7min later. SpO2 did not increase with supplemental oxygen because of dyspnea which was increased to 100% by bag-mask ventilation. He complained of difficulty breathing at first but his responsiveness gradually too worse to communicate and the level of anesthesia was not measure.A diagnosis of exacerbation of MG resulting from insufficient cortisol level was made. Hydrocortisone 100mg promptly improved the spontaneous breathing and the level of consciousness. Thus cold sense was observed below the C4 dermatome for the first time about 38min after the intrathecal injection. However the patient continued to complain of difficulty in breathing though we considered that this was due to extensive local anesthetic area and not due to respiratory dysfunction itself or intracerebral abnormality. Thus we decided that it was appropriate to manage the patient under general anesthesia while waiting for the spinal subarachnoid local anesthetics to wear off.
For controlled ventilation 0.81% sevoflurane was administered intraoperatively. The vital signs were stable and additional analgesics and muscle relaxants were not required. The total operative time was 103min. Since the pharyngeal temperature was low 34.4C at the end of the procedure we did not extubate and instead continued to keep the patient under inhalation anesthesia while warming him using a warm air heater. After confirming a rise in pharyngeal temperature to 35.1C he was extubated. He did not complain of difficulty in breathing after extubation. Assessment of the spinal anesthesia showed no loss of cold sensation which was considered to indicate wearing off spinal anesthesia. The patient was returned to the surgical word alert and conscious and in a stable condition respiratory rate 12/min1 SpO2 99% on oxygen breathing 3L/min1. He remained stable in his room without any abnormal respiratory symptoms. Oxygen was discontinued the next morning and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 3. Discussion. Different sensitivities to muscle relaxants have been reported in patients with MG compared with those without MG. On the other hand spinal and epidural anesthesia have been safely performed in patients with MG 2 3.
In our patient extensive neural blockade was also responsible for respiratory failure. Although little is known about the heightened sensitivity of MG patients to local anesthetics our findings suggest that it is important to carefully monitor such patients and not to use sedatives when performing sensory block above the thoracic level to avoid respiratory muscle dysfunction.This patient was suffered from severe hypothermia during operation. His body temperature was same of 36.4C when 2h before leaving his ward armpit just arrival at operation room forehead and before start of spinal anesthesia forehead. However we found that his body temperature was decreased to 35.5C forehead 45min after administered local anesthetics and sevoflurane inhalation. Although we started to worm up his thorax with Bair Hugger 3M Japan and monitored pharyngeal temperature his body temperature remained 34.4C until end of operation. After 90min of warming he was extubated at 35.1C. His armpit temperature had recovered to 36.4C when he arrived at his1 3ward. This hypothermia during operation might attributed to vasodilation induced by spinal anesthesia combined general anesthesia.
This finding suggests that steroids seem to improve the function of respiratory muscles in MG patients. Previous studies indicated that the effects of steroids on MG are primarily dependent on their immunosuppressive action and symptoms typically improve within 3months. For pulse steroid therapy using high-dose steroids symptoms typically improve after 23 courses of treatment 69days 6. The underlying mechanism of action of steroid hormones can be categorized into genomic and non-genomic effects 7. In terms of the genomic effects steroid hormones cross the cellular membrane and bind to steroid receptors in the nucleus to form a complex. The complex then binds to specific DNA sequences and promotes gene transcription thus it takes several hours to days for the genomic effects to take place. The action of steroid hormones on MG can be attributed to a large extent to such genomic effects. In contrast the non-genomic effects can be further categorized into those that are specific act on steroid-specific receptors and nonspecific act directly on the cellular membrane and change membrane fluidity. Of note these actions can take effect within several minutes.
Steroids have immediate effects in patients with asthma and this is likely due to non-genomic effects 7.To our knowledge there are no studies to date that have demonstrated the non-genomic effects of steroids in patients with MG. In the neuromuscular field the non-genomic effects of steroid hormones were reported in rats and white-crowned sparrows. Systemic injection of steroid hormones resulted in a rapid increase in the movement of these animals 9 10. Dexamethasone is known to increase the polymerization of actin in a transient manner and several invitro studies suggested that this reaction was not mediated by transcription factors 11. Collectively these findings suggest that the action of steroids on respiratory muscles observed in our patient can be attributed to the use of local anesthetics effects. Specifically our patient had subclinical reduction of muscle strength due to MG and high spinal blockade further reduced respiratory muscle function. This induced hypoxemia and unresponsiveness which made us suspect brain or heart disorder. However the patient remained conscious at that time but could not respond to verbal commands impediment to airflow through the vocal cords associated with thoracoabdominal muscle dysfunctionwas suspected.
In our case steroid cover was initially considered unnecessary because surgery was minimally invasive and the steroids administered preoperatively was 6h before entering the operating room. In this regard the use of steroids for an immediate effect based on their non-genomic actions may not be effective in all MG patients and perhaps not at all times. However we advocate the use of steroid when worsening of MG symptoms is noted especially respiratory dysfunction during the perioperative period.In summary we report a patient with MG who developed respiratory failure after spinal anesthesia and subsequently showed rapid recovery following steroid administration. Since spinal anesthesia produces stronger blocking effects compared with epidural anesthesia the respiratory status should be monitored more carefully in MG patients than in non-MG patients even when the level of sensory block level is low. Our findings suggest that steroids elicit rapid non-genomic effects in patients with respiratory depression. Failure of reversion of neuromuscular block with sugammadex in patient with myasthenia gravis case report and brief review of literature. Background Myasthenia gravis MG is a challenge for anesthesia management.
Case presentation Myasthenic female patient submitted to general balanced anesthesia using 25mg of rocuronium. Under train-of-four TOF monitoring repeated doses of sugammadex was used in a total of 800mg without recovery of neuromuscular blockade but TOF ratio TOFR was stabilized at 60%. Neostigmine administration led to the improvement of TOFR. Conclusions Although the use of rocuronium-sugammadex seems safe we should consider their unpredictability in myasthenic patients. This report supports the monitoring of neuromuscular blockade as mandatory in every patient especially the myasthenic ones. Background Myasthenia gravis MG is a challenge for anesthesia management. This report shows that the use of rocuronium-sugammadex is not free from flaws and highlights the importance of cholinesterase inhibitors management and neuromuscular block monitoring in the perioperative period of myasthenic patients.Case presentation Myasthenic female patient submitted to general balanced anesthesia using 25mg of rocuronium. Under train-of-four TOF monitoring repeated doses of sugammadex was used in a total of 800mg without recovery of neuromuscular blockade but TOF ratio TOFR was stabilized at 60%.
This report supports the monitoring of neuromuscular blockade as mandatory in every patient especially the myasthenic ones.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Neuromuscular blockade reversal Sugammadex. Background. Myasthenia Gravis MG is an autoimmune disease that affects the neuromuscular junction and neuromuscular transmission therefore it causes muscle weakness. The most common form involves antibodies against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AchR reaching up to 80% of the cases. The phenotype can also vary with several muscle groups affected in different ways. The most commonly affected are the eyes muscles. The most serious manifestations are the myasthenic crisis MC and the cholinergic crisis 1. MG patients are a challenge for anesthesiologists in several aspects. Antibiotics sedatives inhalational anesthetics and surgical stress can trigger its symptoms 1. In this scenario neuromuscular blocking agent NMB use increases the risk of residual paralysis. Succinylcholine is not recommended for myasthenia as it has a slower onset of action and a delayed recovery. The myasthenic patient has greater sensitivity to nondepolarizing NMB due to the reduced number of functional AChR 1. Sugammadex may be a safe option in the reversal of neuromuscular blockade by rocuronium.
However there are some cases in the literature that report failures with these drugs in myasthenic patients 8 as well as in patients without myasthenia 9. The purpose of this case report is to highlight the importance of cholinesterase inhibitors management and neuromuscular block monitoring in the perioperative period of myasthenic patients even with the use of rocuronium-sugammadex. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient. The Authors. 2019 Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License http//creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided you give appropriate credit to the original authors and the source provide a link to the Creative Commons license and indicate if changes were made. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver http//creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated. Correspondence dr.hermannfernandesgmail.com 1Anesthesia Division Clinics Hospital of University of So Paulo Medical School Av. Dr end. Enas de Carvalho Aguiar n 155 8 Andar So Paulo 05403000 So Paulo Brazil 2Rua Cardeal Arcoverde 388.
Case presentation. MG female patient 27 years old 110 kg 172 cm BMI 37.18 kg/m2 in use of azathioprine 150 mg qDay and pyridostigmine 240 mg qDay submitted to videolaparoscopic cholecystectomy. On the days before the surgery her disease was stable under pharmacological treatment with no symptoms. No plasmapheresis was performed. At the morning of the day of the surgery she received pyridostigmine 240 mg. Orotracheal intubation was performed by fiberoscopy under topical anesthesia as the patient had a closed previous tracheostomy followed by venous induction after intratracheal cannula position confirmation. For neuromuscular block monitoring an acceleromyography method device was used TOF Watch. Before the injection of rocuronium 20 mg  01xED95 for ideal body weight this device was calibrated and the train-of-four ratio TOF ratio was 100%. Anesthesia was maintained with sevoflurane. The timeline of events during anesthesia is illustrated inTable 1. The patient was maintained under temperature control and monitoring. Warm air blanket device and pharyngeal thermometer were used. She had normal core temperature at all times 3636.8 C. The surgery had no intercurrences. She kept hemodynamic stability during all time of surgery.
A first bolus dose of sugammadex 200 mg equivalent to approximately 2 mg/kg for body weight was used at 350 PM. At 415 PM the TOF counting presented four responses and TOF ratio TOFR was 45%. A second bolus of 200 mg of sugammadex did not change the TOFR results. At 425 PM another 200 mg was administered followed by a slight improvement in neuromuscular monitor TOFR of 50%. Extubation was performed on her awakening at 435 PM as she was in adequate spontaneous breathing with minimal support by mechanical ventilator. She complained of respiratory discomfort and 200 mg of sugammadex were injected at 440 PM without clinical improvement and no changes on neuromuscular monitor TOFR of 60%. At this point it was decided to administer neostigmine 2 mg and atropine 05 mg at 450 PM which resulted in a progressive improvement of respiratory pattern. At 500 PM neuromuscular monitor showed TOFR of 100%. The patient was then maintained under supplemental O2 5L/min by facial mask and then referred to the ICU with no adverse events until final discharge to the ward. Discussion and conclusions. MG has long been a challenge for anesthesiologists. Plasmapheresis or administration of intravenous immunoglobulins prior to surgery have already been recommended for these patients 1.
In elective cases it is better to perform surgery at best moment of disease control with lower doses of symptomatic and immunosuppressive medications. Preanesthetic medications benzodiazepines and other sedatives should be avoided 7. An alternative for the NMB is the use of inhaled anesthetics in high concentrations. In many cases however if NMB is needed empirical experience in several case reports indicates that reduction of 50% of the usual dose is recommended in these patients 1. The choice of rocuronium-sugammadex is the preferred option in the current scenario although the dose of sugammadex in myasthenia is not standardized yet. Case reports of success used doses of 2 to 4mg/kg for moderate and intense blocks 27. In our case sugammadex was used in fractional doses of 200mg equivalent to 1 81mg/kg and guided by quantitative TOF monitoring in a total of 800mg equivalent to 727mg/kg which should have been an effective dose. Myasthenic crisis MC or worsening of myasthenia status may be another perioperative problem. Sepsis use of corticosteroids surgical stress pregnancy stop of immunosuppressive agents and use of drugs that interfere with neuromuscular junction can increase muscle weakness. In this case in addition to surgical stress and NMB sevoflurane was also used.
An important item to be considered is the treatment agent for MG the cholinesterase inhibitors agents. It is possible that the delay in recovery of the TOFR resulted from falling of pyridostigmine blood levels. That might be the reason why the patient recovered so quickly after neostigmine administration 1. To this date no randomized studies have been conducted with sugammadex in the specific group of myasthenic patients. The majority of patients was reported on case series and case reports 15 7. Neuromuscular blockade with rocuronium and its reversal with sugammadex seems to be the best option when NMB is needed 6 7 but it does not dispense from the use of objective neuromuscular monitoring. In general anesthesia several conditions that may interfere in the recovery to the neuromuscular blockade should be considered like the unpredictability of NMBs in patients with MG the greater sensitivity to the non-depolarizing agents the lack of standardized dose of NMBs in these patients and the precise magnitude of anesthetic drugs hypnotic opioids volatile anesthetics interference as well as other substances.
The present report adds to the literature supporting to the use of neuromuscular blockade monitoring as mandatory for surgeries in patients with MG especially in cases where NMB is required.Ta b le1 Su m m ar y an d timin g ofpe riope ra tiv e ev entsTi m e1 50PM 2 00PM 2 05PM 3 00PM 3 50PM 4 15PM 4 25PM 4 35PM 4 40PM 4 50PM 5 00PMEv ent A w ak e in tu ba tion Post in tu ba tion Be gi nnin g of su rg er yIn tr ao pera tiv epe riod En d ofsu rg er yEs pont an eo us br ea th in gIn ha le d ag en t. tu rn ed of fA w ak in g an d ex tu ba tion Re sp ira to ry di sc om fo rtRe sp ira to ry di sc om fo rtN o re sp ira to ry di sc om fo rtTO F C ount Nre sp onse sor TOF Ra tio% 10 0% 0 re sp onse 3 re sp onse s1 re sp onse 45 %50 %60 %60 %60 %10 0%Pr opof olm g 10 0    Ke ta m in e mg  50    Fe nt an yl mcg 25 025 015 010 0   Ro cu ro ni umm g 20 5   Se vo flu ra neex pi ra ct or yfra ct io n %  1. 61 end. 61 end. 61 end. 61 end.
was involved in the care of the patient and did the writing of the paper. J.L.S.X end. did the chart review literature review and writing of the paper. D.I.N was involved in the care of the patient and collaborated on paper writing. H.A.A collaborated on paper writing and review of the paper. J.E.V end. collaborated on paper writing and did the final review of the paper. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.Funding None.Availability of data and materials Data are available on request due to privacy or other restrictions. The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author HSF. The data are not publicly available due to them containing information that could compromise research participant privacy/ consent.Ethics approval and consent to participate Not applicable.Consent for publication Written informed consent to participate and for publication was obtained from the patient. The signed informed consent form is available to the Editor upon request.Competing interests The authors declare that they have no competing interests.Received 7 May 2019 Accepted 7 August 2019References 1. Blichfeldt-Lauridsen L Hansen BD. Anesthesia and myasthenia gravis. ActaAnaesthesiol Scand. 20125611722. 2 end.
Reversal ofneuromuscular blockade with sugammadex in an obese myasthenic patient undergoing thymectomy. J Anesth end. 20112523167. 3 end. de Boer HD Shields MO Booij LH. Reversal of neuromuscular blockade with sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis a case series of 21 patients and review of the literature. Eur J Anaesthesiol. 2014311271521. 4 end. de Boer HD van Egmond J Driessen JJ Booij LH. Sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis. Anaesthesia. 2010656653. 5 end. Jakubiak J Gaszynski T Gaszynski W. Neuromuscular block reversal with sugammadex in a morbidly obese patient with myasthenia gravis. Anaesthesiol Intensive Ther. 20124412830. 6 end. Petrun AM Mekis D Kamenik M. Successful use of rocuronium and sugammadex in a patient with myasthenia. Eur J Anaesthesiol. 20102710 9178. 7 end. Sungur Z Senturk M. Anaesthesia for thymectomy in adult and juvenile myasthenic patients. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2016291149. 8 end. Sugi Y Nitahara K Shiroshita T Higa K. Restoration of train-of-four ratio with neostigmine after insufficient recovery with Sugammadex in a patient with myasthenia gravis. A A Case Rep. 201313435. 9 end. Bellod A Jr March X Hernandez C Villalonga A. Delayed recurarisation after sugammadex reversal. Eur J Anaesthesiol. 201431127102. Publishers Note.
A multicenter prospective observational study on the safety and efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis. Introduction Several clinical studies using tacrolimus revealed reasonable therapeutic mechanisms and efficacy in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. However longperiod studies in a large number of patients with MG are limited therefore the aim of this study was to investigate the therapeutic efficacies and safety of tacrolimus in patients with MG during a 12-month follow-up period. Methods Tacrolimus was administered to 150 patients with MG who were recruited based on the inclusion criteria. Fifteen medical centers in Korea participated in this study. The efficacy of tacrolimus was assessed using MG composite scales MGCS and the prednisolone-sparing effect. And the adverse drug reactions ADRs of tacrolimus were monitored in each patient from the beginning of tacrolimus treatment to the end of the follow-up period. Results After starting tacrolimus the 32 patients were affected by ADRs and consequentially 134 patients of the enrolled patients were followed up for 12 months.
Conclusions Our study showed that tacrolimus would be an effective immunosuppressant as an initial therapeutic agent in patients with MG in addition it showed tolerable safety profiles during the 12-month follow-up evaluation. ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT. Accepted Manuscript. end. A multicenter prospective observational study on the safety and efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis. Suk-Won Ahn In Soo Joo Byung-Jo Kim Jung-Joon Sung SaYoun Kang Jeeyoung Oh Yang-Ki Minn Bum Chun Suh SunYoung Oh Yoon-Ho Hong Tai-Seung Nam Jung Im Seok Young-Eun Park Ha Young Shin Eun-Bin Cho Je-Young Shin Hung Youl Seok Jin-Sung Park Ju-Hong Min Jin-Myoung Seok Byoung-Joon Kim PII S0022-510X1730367-2 DOI doi 10.1016/j.jns.2017.05.060 Reference JNS 15367 To appear in Journal of the Neurological Sciences Received date 2 March 2017 Revised date 2 May 2017 Accepted date 29 May 2017Please cite thi.
The address for the corresponding author was captured as affiliation for all authors. Please check if appropriate. Jns2017 doi 10.1016/j.jns.2017.05.060This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting typesetting and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP T. A multicenter prospective observational study on the safety. and efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravisSuk-Won Ahn MD PhD1 In Soo Joo MD PhD2 Byung-Jo Kim MD PhD3 Jung-Joon Sung MD PhD4 Sa-Youn Kang MD PhD5 Jeeyoung Oh MD PhD6 Yang-KiMinn MD PhD7 Bum Chun Suh MD PhD8 Sun-Young Oh MD PhD9 Yoon-HoHong MD PhD10 Tai-Seung Nam MD PhD11 Jung Im Seok MD PhD12 Young-EunPark MD PhD13 Ha Young Shin MD PhD14 Eun-Bin Cho MD15 Je-Young ShinMD4 Hung Youl Seok MD3 Jin-Sung Park MD16 Ju-Hong Min MD PhD15 Jin-Myoung Seok MD15 Byoung-Joon Kim MD PhD15.1 .
u Korea6 Department of Neurology Konkuk University Hospital Konkuk University College ofMedicine Seoul Korea7 Department of Neurology Hallym University Hospital Hallym National University College ofMedicine Seoul KoreaAC CEP TED MAN USC RIP T8 Department of Neurology Kangbuk Samsung Hospital Sungkyunkwan University School ofMedicine Seoul Korea9 Department of Neurology Chonbuk National University Hospital Chonbuk NationalUniversity College of Medicine Korea10 Department of Neurology Boramae Medi. cal Center Seoul National University College ofMedicine Seoul Korea11 Department of Neurology Chonnam National University College of Medicine Korea 12 Department of Neurology School of Medicine Catholic University of Daegu  Daegu Korea 13 Department of Neurology Busan National University Hospital Busan National UniversityCollege of Medicine Busan Korea14 Department of Neurology Yonsei University College of Medicine Seoul Korea 15 Department of Neurology Samsung Medical Center Sungkyunkwan Univer. sity School ofMedicine Seoul Korea16 Department of Neurology Kyungpook National University School of Medicine Daegu KoreaAddress for Correspondence Byoung-Joon Kim MD PhD.
A multicenter prospective observational study on the safety. and efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis. Abstract end. Introduction Several clinical studies using tacrolimus revealed reasonable therapeutic mechanisms and efficacy in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. However longperiod studies in a large number of patients with MG are limited therefore the aim of this study was to investigate the therapeutic efficacies and safety of tacrolimus in patients with MG during a 12-month follow-up period. Methods Tacrolimus was administered to 150 patients with MG who were recruited based on the inclusion criteria. Fifteen medical centers in Korea participated in this study. The efficacy of tacrolimus was assessed using MG composite scales MGCS and the prednisolone-sparing effect. And the adverse drug reactions ADRs of tacrolimus were monitored in each patient from the beginning of tacrolimus treatment to the end of the follow-up period. Results After starting tacrolimus the 32 patients were affected by ADRs and consequentially 134 patients of the enrolled patients were followed up for 12 months.
Conclusions Our study showed that tacrolimus would be an effective immunosuppressant as an initial therapeutic agent in patients with MG in addition it showed tolerable safety profiles during the 12-month follow-up evaluation.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP T. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an antibody-specific autoimmune disease characterized by impaired neuromuscular transmission. Clinically it manifests as muscular weakness and easy fatigability 12.Patients with MG show long-term disabilities such as ptosis diplopia limbweakness dysarthria dysphagia impaired mastication and respiratory insufficiency 3. MG is mainly caused by an autoimmune response against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR and muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK and it is occasionally associated with thymoma 1-3. However the underlying mechanism of MG remains uncertain. It has been hypothesized to involve B and T lymphocyte autoimmunization environmental factors altered genetic factors inadequate immunity of the thymus and combinations of autoimmune diseases 12.The basic therapies for MG include corticosteroids which are the main therapeutic option immunosuppressants such as azathioprine cyclosporine and mycophenolate plasma exchange PE intravenous immunoglobulin G IVIgG and thymectomy 4-6.
Moreover the long-term use of corticosteroids may cause many serious side effects including opportunistic infections adrenal insufficiency Cushings syndrome hormonal imbalance osteoporosis abnormal electrolyte levels abnormal liver and renal functions gastric ulcer diabetes hypertension dyslipidemia psychosis and obesity resulting in serious fatal disorders 78. Therefore to avoid these side effects new immunosuppressants have been developed to reduce the long-term use or administered dose of corticosteroids 79.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP TTacrolimus FK506 a macrolide lactone immunosuppressant has been suggested to reduce the dose of corticosteroids however its therapeutic utility has not been corroborated by statistical significance and its long-term safety has not been evaluated in a large number of patients with MG 10-14.
ow-up period of 12 months.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP TMethodsPatients and enrollmentsIn this study we prospectively collected the clinical and laboratory records of 150consecutive patients suffering from MG who were treated with corticosteroids.The total duration of the study was 24 months and included a 12-month enrollment period of MG patients and followed by a 12-month observation period after the start of tacrolimus administration.The study was designed as a prospective multicenter observational. study involving 15 medical centers in Korea. Data were collected by investigation teams at each trial hospital. Each hospital received an approval from the institutional review board or ethics committee and each patient provided a written informed consent before enrollment.The therapeutic need for special immunosuppressants owing to resistance to the conventional corticosteroids and anticholinesterase drugs was the main inclusion criterion into the study. Another inclusion criterion was the age >19 years.
bitors 4-6. Additionally chest computed tomography CT was performed in the majority of the patients. Positive autoantibody was defined when the AChR antibody titer was  0.5 nmol/L.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP TStudy design and purposeThe primary aim of the study was to evaluate the tolerability and safety of tacrolimus via monitoring of the adverse effects during a 12-month follow-up period in a large number of Korean patients with MG.The secondary endpoints were to identify the overall efficacy of tacrolimus in terms of improvement of MGCS and reduction in the corticosteroid dosage after tacrolimus . administration during the 12-month follow-up period 1617.The initial tacrolimus dosage of 3 mg/day was recommended once a day however adjustment of tacrolimus dosage was referred to physicians judgment on the basis of proper MG management.Clinical data were obtained and tests were performed at the start of drug administration. In addition MGCS corticosteroid dosages mg/day and occurrence of adverse effects were evaluated at the baseline and 3 6 9 and 12 months end of followup after tacrolimus administration.Adverse effects were considered significant when there was pharmacological correlation and they occurred after a period of tacrolimus administration.
Descriptive statistics include sample size percentages mean values standard error SE and standard deviation SD. The results are descriptively presented using tables and graphics and the numerical variables are additionally presented as the mean  SD. TheAC CEP TED MAN USC RIP Trate of ADR occurrence during the 12-month observation following the start of tacrolimus treatment was described as the number of each ADR and the number of the affected patients.The statistical analyses were performed using SPSS version 19.0 for Windows. In particular the responses to tacrolimus therapy including clinical efficacy represented by MGCS and steroid-sparing effect were evaluated using the general linear model GLM repeated measure analysis of variance ANOVA followed by Mauchlys test of sphericity at the end of the follow-up period. P values < 0.05 were considered statistically significant.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP T. Results end. A total of 150 patients with MG were enrolled at the baseline at 15 neurological centers in Korea Table 1. Two patients discontinued the study on their request and withdrew without any specific reasons therefore the safety of tacrolimus was evaluated in 148 patients.
In addition conventional standard therapies including anticholinesterase drugs corticosteroids intravenous immunoglobulins IVIG and plasma exchange PE were allowed at the discretion of the neurological professionals 111219.Overall 32 patients 21.6 % were affected by ADRs after starting tacrolimus Table 2. A list of all ADRs including nephrotoxicity high blood pressure increased liver enzymes increased blood glucose level upper respiratory tract infections urinary tract infections leukopenia herpes zoster herpes labialis oral candidiasis headache dizziness tremors alopecia and gastrointestinal discomforts such as dyspepsia nausea and diarrhea is provided in Table 2. Most patients with ADRs resolved spontaneously or upon reduction of tacrolimus dose. However of these 32 patients 7 patients 4.7 % with herpes zoster 3 patients nephrotoxicity 3 patients and leukopenia 1 patient were considered to have serious ADRs SADR and discontinued tacrolimus treatment. In addition five patients with gastrointestinal symptoms two patient chest discomfort one patient and alopecia one patient and increased liver enzymes and glucose level one patient discontinued tacrolimus treatment after interviewing with attendingAC CEP TED MAN USC RIP Tmedical physicians.
One patient who already discontinued tacrolimus because of herpes zoster had severe hematochezia from uncontrolled intestinal bleeding and died. Another patient had metastatic lung cancer and discontinued tacrolimus for cancer treatment. In addition another one patient with periodontitis non-SAE withdrew from the study after interviewing with the attending physicians.Conclusively 134 patients 90 women and 44 men completed the study at the 12- month follow-up and the patients had different MG severity according to the clinical classification of Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA. Fifty-five patients presented with MGFA class I with ocular involvement and 79 patients presented with generalized MG MGFA class II 56 patients III 17 patients IV 2 patients V 4 patients. The age of patients ranged from 34 to 81 years and the mean age was 56.2  15.6 years Table1.Forty-four 32.8 % patients had a medical history of thymoma confirmed via chest CTand 50 37.3 % patients with thymoma 44 patients and non-thymoma 6 patients underwent thymectomy before starting tacrolimus administration at the baseline.
During the 12-month follow-up theAC CEP TED MAN USC RIP Tmean prednisolone dosage significantly decreased 6.1  7.6 mg/day compared to that in the baseline 11.3  9.5 mg/day Fig 1 p < 0.01. In the subgroup of generalized MG the mean prednisolone dosage significantly decreased from 11.8  9.6 mg/day to 7.6  7.9 mg/day after 12 months p < 0.01 and in subgroup of ocular MG it significantly decreased from 10.6  9.4 mg/day to 3.9  6.7 mg/day after 12 months p < 0.01. Additionally in the subgroup of thymectomy MG the mean prednisolone dosage significantly decreased from 12.4  10.0 mg/day to 6.6  9.6 mg/day after 12 months p < 0.01 and also in subgroup of non-thymectomy MG it significantly decreased from 10.6  9.1 mg/day to 5.7  6.1 mg/day after 12 months p < 0.01.The severity of MG was evaluated based on the MGCS at the baseline and 6 and 12 months after tacrolimus treatment. In conclusion tacrolimus therapy resulted in significant improvement. MGCS significantly improved 3.3  4.1 after 12 months of tacrolimus treatment compared to that at the baseline 5.7  5.4 Fig 2 p < 0.01. In the subgroup of generalized MG the mean MGCS significantly decreased from 7.9  5.7 to 4.3  4.5 at 12 months p < 0.01.
Discussion. In this study we showed that tacrolimus would be an effective immunosuppressant as an initial therapeutic agent in patients with MG in addition it showed tolerable safety profiles during the 12-month follow-up.The reduction in prednisolone dose after tacrolimus treatment was statistically significant in all patients with MG. The steroid-sparing effect of tacrolimus was significant in the majority of patients with MG after 6 months in addition all patients with ocular and generalized MG showed distinctive clinical improvement after 9 months. At the baseline the mean prednisone dose was 10 mg/day in all patients with MG however it was tapered to less than 10 mg/day at the 12-month follow-up evaluation.And based on the reliable clinical measurement of MG tacrolimus was clinically efficacious as evidenced by a significant improvement of MGCS in generalized MG although the MGCS in the subgroup of ocular MG did not show statistical significance.In addition the subgroup analysis of the previous thymectomy revealed that tacrolimus administ.
In addition a similar steroid-sparing effect of tacrolimus was reported in a 28-week study however the difference in the primary efficacy endpoint between the tacrolimus and placebo groups did not reach statistical significance.In this study we confirmed the positive effects of tacrolimus treatment in patientsAC CEP TED MAN USC RIP Twith MG in addition our results reached statistical significance in a large number of patients with MG.Furthermore our study confirmed the tolerable safety profiles . of tacrolimus 3mg/day in patients with MG. To our knowledge there have been no safety and efficacy studies on tacrolimus that lasted for 12 months and included a large number of patients with MG.We suggest that tacrolimus should be introduced as a standard immunosuppressive therapy when corticosteroids are necessary for MG treatment or when other immunosuppressants resulted in side effects. Tacrolimus was found advantageous in terms of improvement of MGCS and lowering of prednisolone dosage when standard therapy of MG was usually allowed in patients and who responded with significant improvement to administration of tacrolimus. It showed a good tolerance with only reversible side effects.
It was a prospective observational study without placebo-controlled group therefore further randomized placebo-controlled clinical studies are required 20. Furthermore the present study did not strictly restrict other standard MG therapies including acetylcholinesterase inhibitors IVIgG and plasma exchange therefore the specific therapeutic response to tacrolimus could not be properly evaluated. In addition further studies are required to apply feasible outcome measures such as quantitative MG score QMGS test MG activities of daily living MGADL and MG questionnaire MGQ. In addition it is necessary to develop new validated tools for clinical trials 21-23.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP TNevertheless our study showed that tacrolimus showed tolerable safety profiles aswell as the clinical efficacies in patients with MG during the 12-month follow-up period. And these results can provide valuable information regarding MG therapy.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP TAcknowledgement Astellas Pharma Korea Inc and the other members of the MGCK Myasthenia Gravis Consortium in Korea group for advising the research. And this research was supported by Astellas Pharma Korea Inc to develop this research.AC CEP TED MAN USC RIP T. ADRs Number.
via improving MGCS and lowering of prednisolone dosage. Conclusively our study showed that tacrolimus would be an effectiveimmunosuppressant as an initial therapeutic agent in patients with MG. EFFICACY OF PREDNISONE FOR THE TREATMENT OF OCULAR MYASTHENIA EPITOME A RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED TRIAL. Introduction In this study we evaluated the safety tolerability and efficacy of prednisone in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG concurrently treated with pyridostigmine. Methods This investigation was a randomized doubleblind placebo-controlled trial. Participants whose symptoms failed to remit on pyridostigmine were randomized to receive placebo or prednisone initiated at 10 mg every other day and titrated to a maximum of 40 mg/day over 16 weeks. The primary outcome measure was treatment failure. Results Fewer subjects were randomized than the 88 planned. Of the 11 randomized 9 completed 16 weeks of double-blind therapy. Treatment failure incidence was 100% 95% CI 48%100% in the placebo group n 5 5 vs. 17% 95% CI 0%64% in the prednisone group P 5 0.02 n 5 6. Median time to sustained minimal manifestation status MMS was 14 weeks requiring an average prednisone dose of 15 mg/day. Adverse events were infrequent and generally mild in both groups.
Muscle Nerve 53 363369 2016 Myasthenia gravis MG is a generalized disorder that often manifests initially as focal weakness. The most common focal presentation involves weakness of the extraocular muscles eyelid elevators and orbicularis oculi with symptoms of ptosis and diplopia. The estimated prevalence of MG is approximately 10 per 100000 individuals and approximately 60% of patients initially present with isolated ocular symptoms. Estimates of the frequency with which these patients progress to develop generalized MG vary widely from 50% to 80%. The goals of treatment for ocular myasthenia gravis OMG include returning the individual to a state of clear vision and preventing the development or limiting the severity of generalized myasthenia gravis GMG. Treatments proposed for OMG include drugs with a purely symptomatic effect such as cholinesterase inhibitors and drugs that suppress the immune system such as corticosteroids. Proponents of steroids point to the limited efficacy of pyridostigmine the possibility that chronic cholinesterase-inhibitor therapy may exacerbate the cholinergic deficit in myasthenia the potentially greater beneficial effects of prednisone and the potential for steroids to reduce the risk of progression from ocular to generalized disease.
There has been 1 prior randomized controlled trial RCT relevant to the use of steroids in OMG. This trial however did not permit any conclusion regarding the efficacy of steroid therapy as patients were only treated for 8 days and outcomes were reported solely in terms of the degree of ophthalmoplegia. There have also been 7 non-randomized observational studies 5 of which suggested a possible benefit of steroids in reducing the risk of progression to GMG and 2 suggesting a favorable symptomatic effect. However in view of the paucity and limited methodological quality of the available data controversy persists regarding the optimal approach to treatment of patients with OMG. The importance of the clinical question and the absence of convincing evidence of efficacy and safety combined with the equipoise among neuromuscular specialists provide justification for an RCT to evaluate the safety and efficacy of prednisone in the treatment of OMG. Muscle Nerve 53 363369 2016Myasthenia gravis MG is a generalized disorder that often manifests initially as focal weakness. The most common focal presentation involves weakness of the extraocular muscles eyelid elevators and orbicularis oculi with symptoms of ptosis and diplopia.
Treatments proposed for OMG include drugs with a purely symptomatic effect such as cholinesterase inhibitors and drugs that suppress the immune system such as corticosteroids. Proponents of steroids point to the limited efficacy of pyridostigmine the possibility that chronic cholinesterase-inhibitor therapy may exacerbate the cholinergic deficit in myasthenia13 the potentially greater beneficial effects of prednisone and the potential for steroids to reduce the risk of progression from ocular to generalized disease. Opponents of steroids emphasize the potential risk of serious side effects and question whether these risks are justified in the setting of purely ocular symptoms.There has been 1 prior randomized controlled trial RCT relevant to the use of steroids in OMG.5914 This trial however did not permit any conclusion regarding the efficacy of steroid therapy as patients were only treated for 8 days and outcomes were reported solely in terms of the degree of ophthalmoplegia.
combined with the equipoise among neuromuscular specialists provide justification for an RCT to evaluate the safety and efficacy of prednisone in the treatment of OMG.14. METHODS end. Study Design. The Efficacy of Prednisone in the Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia EPITOME25 trial was a randomized double-blind parallel-groupAdditional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article.Abbreviations AE adverse event CMSU Clinical Material Services Unit DEXA dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry DSMB Data Safety Monitoring Board EPITOME Efficacy of Prednisone for Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia GMG generalized myasthenia gravis MG-QOL-15 15-item Myasthenia Gravis Quality-of-Lif. e Scale MMS minimal manifestation status MSG muscle study group QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis score NEIVFQ-25 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire OMG ocular myasthenia gravis RCT randomized controlled trial SAE serious adverse event Key words clinical trial ocular myasthenia prednisone neuromuscular steroids See Appendix for listing of MSG participants. This study was supported by FDA Orphan Products Development R01FD003710 to M.B.
Benatar e-mail mbenatarmiami.eduVC 2015 Wiley Periodicals Inc. Published online 14 July 2015 in Wiley Online Library wileyonlinelibrary.com. DOI 10.1002/mus.24769Steroids for Ocular Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE March 2016 363placebo-controlled trial of prednisone for treatment of OMG. After enrollment all subjects were treated with pyridostigmine for a period of 46 weeks with dose escalated until efficacy i.e. minimal manifestation status MMS26 or toxicity that could not be mitigated with a selective muscarinic antagonist the maximum pyridostigmine dose permitted was 480 mg/day. Subjects whose symptoms failed to remit continued to take pyridostigmine and were randomized to either prednisone or placebo for 16 weeks Stage 1. After this 16-week period of double-blind therapy subjects whose symptoms failed to remit were crossed over to treatment with high-dose prednisone 60 mg/day for a period of 16 weeks Stage 2. For subjects whose symptoms did remit during Stage 1 the study drug was tapered in a double-blind manner during Stage 2 Fig. 1 end. The institutional review board of each participating center approved the study protocol and all subjects provided written informed consent. The study was registered with ClinicalTrials.gov NCT NCT00995722.Study Participants.
Patients were enrolled at 6 academic centers across the United States and Canada including the University of Miami Miami FL Duke University Durham NC University of Kansas Medical Center Kansas City MO Yale University New Haven CTUniversity of Vermont Burlington VT and University of Toronto Toronto ON.Investigational Product. Prednisone and placebo tablets were over-encapsulated by the University of Iowa Research Pharmacy to produce matching capsules. The Clinical Materials Services Unit CMSU at the University of Rochester was responsible for investigational product packaging labeling and distribution to study sites.Randomization and Blinding. Participants were randomized 11 to receive either prednisone or matching placebo. The randomization schedule was developed by the Muscle Study Group MSG Biostatistics Center at the University of Rochester. Randomization was stratified by center and included blocking to ensure approximate balance of treatment group assignments within each center at any point during the trial. Randomization was implemented using a secure web-based module that was accessible by each site the module returned the appropriate drug pack number after confirmation of subject eligibility.
To promote maintenance of blinding an evaluator blinded to drug assignment and the occurrence of adverse events performed all efficacy outcome assessments. The treating neurologist was responsible for reviewing safety data.Interventions. During Stage 1 the trial evaluated a prednisone dosing strategy of starting low and titrating upward as needed based on efficacy and safety/tolerability rather than a fixed dose of prednisone. Prednisone was started at a dose of 10 mg every other day it was then initially increased to 10 mg/day then 20 mg alternating with 10 mg and so forth with adjustments in dose made no more frequently than every 2 weeks. The maximum dose allowed during Stage 1 was 40 mg/day. The dose was titrated according to whether MMS had been attained and the presence and nature of adverse events. Dose escalation was constrained by toxicity that did not respond to appropriate medical intervention. The strategy of starting low and utilizing an alternate-day approach was motivated by the empiric belief that higher doses of prednisone are more likely to be associated with steroidinduced side effects especially in patients with relevant comorbidities e.g. diabetes.
The364 Steroids for Ocular Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE March 2016dose was initially reduced to 50 mg/day then 40 mg/day and so forth down to 10 mg/day with adjustments made every 2 weeks. After 2 weeks at 10 mg/day the dose could be reduced to 10 mg every other day the lowest dose permitted during open-label treatment.Outcomes. The schedule of in-person visits and telephone contacts is outlined in Figure 1. The primary outcome measure was treatment failure defined as failure to achieve sustained MMS26 progression to GMG or toxicity leading to discontinuation of study drug by Week 16. Sustained MMS was defined as the appearance of MMS that was maintained across 2 consecutive in-person evaluations 4 weeks apart. Progression to GMG was based on a clinical assessment by the treating neurologist that included MG-specific manual muscle testing27 and careful inquiry about the presence of swallowing or breathing symptoms that could be attributed to MG.
To enhance detection of steroid-related side effects even if not reported subjectively all study participants underwent glucose tolerance tests or hemoglobin A1c measurement for known diabetics as well as bone dualenergy X-ray absorptiometry DEXA scans and ophthalmological examinations for cataracts and glaucoma before randomization and again at the time of study completion. All outcome assessments were performed at least 12 hours after the last dose of pyridostigmine.Sample Size. Preliminary studies indicated that 75% of OMG patients would achieve remission on prednisone plus pyridostigmine after failing to remit on pyridostigmine alone compared with 31% on pyridostigmine alone.20 Sample size estimates were based on the assumptions that a <75% of the prednisone-treated participants would achieve MMS that is 25% would have treatment failure b that <31% of the placebo-treated group would remit that is 69% would have treatment failure and c the rate of adverse events requir. ing drug discontinuation would be 10% and as a result 35%  25% 1 10% of subjects in the prednisone group would have treatment failure.
We planned to enroll 88 subjects to account for a projected loss-to-follow-up rate of 10%.Statistical Methods. The Fisher exact test was used to compare the incidence of treatment failure in the treatment groups. All randomized subjects were included in the analysis in accordance with the intention-to-treat principle. Analysis of covariance was used to compare mean values of secondary outcome variables changes in ocular QMG score and quality-of-life scores between treatment groups at Week 16 adjusting for the baseline value of the outcome variable. A significance level of 5% 2-tailed was used for hypothesis testing.Safety Monitoring. An independent data and safety monitoring board DSMB consisting of 2 neurologists and a statistician approved the study protocol and periodically reviewed study data for participant safety study conduct and progress. An independent and blinded medical monitor reviewed all serious adverse events SAEs. RESULTS end. Participants. The trial was open for enrollment for 34 months between January 2011 and October 2013 at 9 clinical centers in the United States and Canada. The trial was closed early due to slow participant accrual.
One hundred forty-five patients were approached for participation 23 declined toSteroids for Ocular Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE March 2016 365participate and 107 failed pre-screening. Among the remaining 15 patients assessed for eligibility 11 were randomized 6 55% to prednisone and 5 45% to placebo. One of the participants randomized to placebo withdrew consent before receipt of study drug but was included in the analysis in accordance with the intention-to-treat principle. One participant stopped treatment at Week 12 due to early trial closure. The remaining 9 participants completed 16 weeks of double-blind treatment Fig. 2 end. There were no substantial differences between treatment groups with respect to baseline characteristics Table 1.Efficacy. No subjects progressed to GMG or discontinued study drug due to toxicity. All 5 placebotreated subjects 100% had treatment failure based on inability to achieve sustained MMS 95% CI 48%100% compared with 1 of 6 subjects 17% in the prednisone-treated group 95% CI 0%64% P 5 0.02 Fisher exact test. The 1 prednisonetreated patient who did not achieve MMS waswithdrawn at Week 16 due to early trial closure. The prednisone-treated subjects achieved MMS at Weeks 4 n 5 1 8 n 5 2 12 n 5 1 and 16 n 5 1.
The median prednisone dose at the time of sustained MMS was 15 mg/day range 1525 mg/ day. Per protocol study subjects who achieved sustained MMS successfully tapered their prednisone to a median dose of 10 mg/day range 1015 mg/ day without relapse of symptoms. Observed mean responses on the secondary outcome measures were better in the prednisone group than in the placebo group but the group differences were not statistically significant Table 2. Individual subject responses are displayed in Figure 3.Open-Label High-Dose Prednisone. Three of 5 placebo-treated participants switched to high-dose prednisone 60 mg/day with rapid taper. Sustained MMS was attained in 2 subjects within 4 and 8 weeks respectively. Of the other 2 participants randomized to receive placebo 1 never receivedstudy drug and the other was withdrawn early due to study closure.Safety. Thirty adverse events AEs were reported during the double-blind phase of the study 8 of which led to a reduction in dose of study medication Table 3. Twenty-two of these AEs occurred in the prednisone group and 8 occurred in the placebo group. Four SAEs were reported during the course of the trial 3 in the placebo group and 1 in the prednisone group but none were judged to be related to study medication.
Weight gain in 2prednisone-treated participants during the doubleblind phase of the trial prompted a reduction in the dose of study drug but both participants still achieved sustained MMS 1 by Week 12 and the other by Week 20. DISCUSSION. The major limitation of this study is the small sample size which was a function of slow patient enrollment approximately 1 eligible patient identified every 2 months with approximately 1 patient enrolled every 3 months across the 9 study centers. Although initially planned as a 5-center clinical trial a decision was made soon after enrollment opened to expand the number of enrolling centers. The reasons for slow patient accrual include strong patient preferences either to be on steroids or not to take steroids the availability of prednisone outside of the trial prednisone initiation before referral to study centers and logistics patient travel number of visits and the complexity of coordinating availability of 2 physicians treating neurologist and blinded evaluator for each study visit. SlowTable 3.
1 0 Edema 0 2 Hematoma 0 1 Myalgia/cramping 0 1 Eye pain poked in eye 1 0 Total 8 22Indicates that AE led to a reduction in dose of study medication. Dose was reduced because of diarrhea in only 1 of the 2 patients in the prednisone group.Steroids for Ocular Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE March 2016 367recruitment appears to be a common problem in MG RCTs as many studies have terminated prematurely for this reason.31Notwithstanding the small number of participants enrolled in this trial the primary efficacy analysis demonstrated a clinically and statistically significant benefit of prednisone compared with placebo. Five of 6 participants 83% in the prednisone group achieved the primary endpoint of sustained MMS at a median of 14 weeks on a median prednisone dose of 15 mg/day compared with 0 of 5 participants in the placebo group. The observation that none of the patients in the placebo group achieved MMS may at least in part be a function of an important element of study designthat all patients were initially treated with pyridostigmine and that those who responded were not randomized to receive study drug i.e. those patients who responded to pyridostigmine alone were not randomized.
The estimated effect of prednisone of 3.8 points in mean MG-QOL score would be considered clinically meaningful but the effect was imprecisely estimated in this small trial.It is of interest that 2 of the 3 placebo-treated patients who switched over to high-dose prednisone achieved MMS within 4 and 8 weeks respectively. Although EPITOME was designed to shed light on the utility of high-dose prednisone the small number of subjects enrolled the even smaller number switched over to high-dose prednisone and the unblinded nature of the data make it difficult to draw conclusions about the relative utility of this treatment approach.AEs were typically mild and did not generally require drug discontinuation. However it should be noted that the duration of steroid treatment was relatively short maximum of 36 weeks so the longterm safety of low-dose steroids in this population remains unclear. Nevertheless at the dose needed to achieve clinical improvement prednisone appears to be safe and well tolerated. These data support the strategy of treating patients with OMG whose symptoms have failed to remit on pyridostigmine therapy alone with an initial low dose of prednisone followed by a gradual titration until efficacy is achieved. APPENDIX end.
Smith project manager Nuran Dilek data manager Michael P.McDermott PhD biostatistician and Joanne Janciuras biostatistical programmer Clinical Material Services Unit CMSU Cornelia Kamp MBA executive director strategic initiatives Tim Hackett director regulatory and technical affairs Pat Bolger RPh MBA director clinical and business affairs and Joan Woodcook MS associate director quality affairs University of Kansas Medical Center Richard J. Barohn MD site-PI April L. McVey MD blinded evaluator Mazen M. Dimachkie subI Mamatha Pasnoor MD blinded evaluator Thomas J. Whittaker JD MD sub-I Laura Herbelin sub-I and Gabrielle Rico coordinator University of Vermont Michael Hehir MD site-PI Waqar Waheed MD blinded evaluator and Shannon Lucy coordinator Yale University Richard J. Nowak MD MS site-PI Daniel B. Dicapua MD blinded evaluator Jonathan M. Goldstein MD blinded evaluator Benison Keung MD blinded evaluator and Joan Nye BS coordinator University of Toronto Hans Katzberg site-PI Vera Bril co-I Carolina Barnett Tapia MD blinded evaluator Ari Breiner MD blinded evaluator and Seint Kokokyi BSc MSc coordinator. University of Virginia Ted Burns MD site-PI Guillermo Solorzano MD co-I and Amruta Joshi coordinator University at Buffalo Gil I. Wolfe MD site-PI Nicholas J.
Juel MD site-PI Jeffrey T. Guptill MD blinded evaluator Lisa D. Hobson MD coI Janice M. Massey MD co-I and Katherine Beck RN coordinator.The authors thank the members of the DSMB John Kissel MD Henry Kaminski MD and Gary Cutter PhD as well as the independent medical monitor Gregory Martin MD. Ocular myasthenia gravis an update on diagnosis and treatment. Purpose of review Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease that commonly affects the palpebral and extraocular muscles. Ocular myasthenia gravis OMG is a variant of the disease that is confined to the ocular muscles but frequently becomes generalized over time. The diagnosis of OMG is often challenging but both clinical and laboratory findings are helpful in confirming the clinical suspicion. This review provides an update on the diagnostic approach and therapeutic options for OMG. D ow nloaded from http//journals.lw w .com /co-ophthalm ology by BhD M f5ePH KbH 4TTIm qenVC D V3BItTVW TdpjR ZIgqbD P7ddU W BH 19AZznP8N b7E6d2w qdw yyw KPo on 10/23/2018 Downloadedfromhttp//journals.lww.com/co-ophthalmologybyBhDMf5ePHKbH4TTImqenVCDV3BItTVWTdpjRZIgqbDP7ddUWBH19AZznP8Nb7E6d2wqdwyywKPoon10/23/2018Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
Cestaria and David H. WeinbergbPurpose of review Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease that commonly affects the palpebral and extraocular muscles. Ocular myasthenia gravis OMG is a variant of the disease that is confined to the ocular muscles but frequently becomes generalized over time. The diagnosis of OMG is often challenging but both clinical and laboratory findings are helpful in confirming the clinical suspicion. This review provides an update on the diagnostic approach and therapeutic options for OMG.Recent findings Antimuscle-specific tyrosine kinase and LDL-related receptor-related protein 4 are newly available serologic testing for myasthenia gravis that can help in increasing the diagnostic sensitivity of OMG. They should be included to the diagnostic algorithm of OMG in appropriate clinical situations.Summary OMG remains a primarily clinical diagnosis but recent advances in laboratory testing can improve the diagnostic accuracy and should be used in appropriate clinical settings.
INTRODUCTION. Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease affecting the neuromuscular junction. Most patients with myasthenia gravis will have ocular manifestations at some point in their disease commonly as the initial presentation 1 . Ocular myasthenia gravis OMG is diagnosed when the disease is confined to the ocular muscles and represents approximately 40% of patients at the time of presentation and ultimately 15% of all myasthenia gravis patients 2  3 . Most patients presenting with isolated ocular symptoms will develop systemic symptoms over time 4 but if the disease remains purely ocular after 2 years there is a roughly 90% chance that generalization will never occur 2 . The distribution of OMG is bimodal in woman around 30 and 60 years and unimodal in man with a peak around 70 years which is similar to the generalized variant. However both variants can occur at basically any age from childhood to advanced old age 5 . The diagnosis of OMG is often challenging on the basis of clinical findings alone but a combination of clinical and laboratory testing including newly discovered antibodies can help in increasing the diagnostic sensitivity. In this review we give an update of thediagnostic approach of OMG and an overview of the available therapeutic options. DIAGNOSIS.
This induces muscle weakness and fatigability which are considered the hallmarks of the disease 2  3  8 . Patients with OMG typically present with a pupil-sparing combination of ptosis and/or diplopia worsened by sustained muscle use 8  .aDepartment of Ophthalmology Neuro-Ophthalmology Service Massachusetts Eye and Ear and bDepartment of Neurology St Elizabeths Medical Center Boston Massachusetts USACorrespondence to Elizabeth Fortin MD Department of Ophthalmology Neuro-Ophthalmology Service Massachusetts Eye and Ear 243Charles Street Boston MA 02114 USA. Tel 1 617 319 7957 e-mail Elizabethfortinmeei.harvard.eduCurr Opin Ophthalmol 2018 29477484DOI10.1097/ICU.00000000000005261040-8738 Copyright 2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved. www.co-ophthalmology.comREVIEWCopyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved.Making a definitive diagnosis based on clinical findings is often challenging mainly because of the significant overlap between OMG and other efferent ophthalmic conditions cranial nerve palsies nuclear and supranuclear motility deficits and ocular myopathies but also because of the lower rate ofseropositivity to AChR antibodies compared with the systemic variant 8 9.
1. end. Clinical findings. As already mentioned ophthalmoplegia and ptosis are both classic findings of OMG. Ophthalmoplegia can range from involvement of a single extraocular muscle to complete ophthalmoparesis 8 9. Variability is a key element of the motility assessment and can be highlighted by measuring the ocular deviation at different moments during the examination using the alternate cover testing and prisms. Eyelid ptosis either unilateral or bilateral is most frequently seen in association with motility deficits but can also be the only manifestation of the disease. It can be triggered or exacerbated by having theKEY POINTSOMG remains a clinical diagnosis but various laboratory and electrophysiologic testing can help in increasing the diagnostic accuracy.Antimuscle-specific tyrosine kinase and LDL-related receptor-related protein 4 antibodies should be included in the diagnostic algorithm of patients suspected to have OMG.Therapy should aim at achieving satisfactory symptomatic control while reducing minimizing the treatment-induced side effects/toxicities. 478 www.co-ophthalmology.com Volume 29 Number 6 November 2018Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
The Cogans lid twitch which is assessed by having the patient sustain downgaze and saccade back to neutral gaze is positive when there is an overshoot of the ptotic eyelid and is suggestive of myasthenia gravis. Having the patient sustain upgaze can help enhance this sign. Singman et al. 10 reported a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of nearly 99% of the Cogans lid twitch. As part of the assessment the orbicularis oculi function should be tested as bilateral orbicularis weakness is frequently encountered in OMG and is not expected in other causes of ophthalmoplegia. For this purpose the patient is asked to forcefully close the eyelids. An ease to manually overcome the eyelid closure or evidence of the so called peek sign consisting of scleral exposure by fatigueinduced opening of the eyelids with time 11 are both suggestive of orbicularis oculi weakness. Combination of poor eye opening ptosis and closure orbicularis weakness is virtually diagnostic of myasthenia gravis. It is of utmost importance to carefully assess the pupils in every patient suspected to have OMG to rule out alternative potentially life-threatening diagnosis.
Nonpharmacologic testing. Nonpharmacologic tests can be easily performed in clinic and are helpful in raising the suspicion of myasthenia gravis. Among these the ice pack test has been reported to have both good sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis 1214. This test is performed by having the patient place an ice pack over the ptotic eyelid for 25 min. An improvement of 2 mm or more of the ptosis is considered a positive result 12. Although the mechanism is not fully understood it is thought that cooling improves the synaptic transmission at the endplate 15 and has an effect on the excitationcontraction coupling in the muscle 16 . It has been shown that the improvement in ptosis is not simply a result of rest as the ice test improves the ptosis significantly more than rest alone 1718. Alternatives to the ice pack test include the rest test which is performed by having the patient close the eyes for 2 min and the sleep test for which the patient is maintained eyes closed in a dark room for 30 min. Improvement of the ptosis and/or ophthalmoparesis is considered a positive result. Edrophonium testing. Edrophonium is a short-acting acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that works by increasing the amount of available acetylcholine in the synaptic cleft.
If there is no effect after 4560 s additional doses of 24 mg are injected up to a total maximal dose of 10 mg 19. Although the test can improve both the ptosis and ocular motility it is easier and more accurate for evaluation of ptosis given the technical challenge of measuring the ocular misalignment per-testing. Common side effects of edrophonium include salivation sweating nausea and fasciculations. Serious adverse effects like hypotension and bradycardia have been reported to occur at a low rate of 0.16% 20 and should be managed with prompt injection of 0.5 mg of intravenous atropine. A safe alternative is to pretreat the patient with 04 mg of intravenous atropine before performing the test. The sensitivity of the edrophonium test for the detection of OMG is 8897% and the sensitivity around 5083% 2123. Although edrophonium testing has been increasingly replaced by other less invasive modalities because of drug accessibility problems and concerns about serious side effects it remains a useful test when used in proper clinical situations. Autoantibodies. The diagnosis of OMG can be confirmed by seropositivity to the AChR antibodies or less often to other NMJ proteins including antimuscle specific tyrosine kinase MuSK and LDL-related receptorrelated protein 4 LRP4.
Acetylcholine receptors antibodies. There are three different available tests for AChR antibodies that is binding blocking and modulating with the most prevalent and biologically important being the binding antibody 24 . The latter binds to extracellular domains of the AChR and cause cross-linking and internalization of the receptors which induces impairment in signal transduction 3 2829. It is the most frequently detected antibody in both the ocular and systemic myasthenia gravis. Normal values vary between laboratories from 0.3 to 0.5 nmol/l but a value higher than1040-8738 Copyright 2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved. www.co-ophthalmology.com 479Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved.1.0 nmol/l is thought to confirm the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. The AChR titers seem to correlate poorly with the disease severity or progression and are therefore usually not used to guide therapeutic decisions 3031.LDL-related receptor-related protein 4 antibodiesLRP4 formsacomplexwithagrinand promotesAChR clustering and differentiation on the postsynaptic membrane via activation of MuSK during the NMJ formation. LRP4 antibodies are thought to impair NMJ maintenance.
Patients with LRP4 antibody positivity tend to have a milder disease course compared with AChR or anti-MuSKpositive patients and can present with isolated ocular symptoms 3134. LRP4 should therefore be tested in patients who carry a suspicion of OMG if the AChR antibodies are negative.Muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodiesMuSK-antibodies are present in 110% of all patients with myasthenia gravis 3536  and are more prevalent in women and patients of Mediterranean decent 2831. Among patients with generalized myasthenia gravis and negative serologies to AChR antibodies 2040% will be positive for antiMuSK antibodies 3237. MuSK antibodies bind to an extracellular domain and cause a reduction in the postsynaptic density of AChR 3 . Isolated ocular involvement is rare in patients with anti-MUSK antibodies which tend to have severe systemic weakness and be more symptomatic of bulbar and facial muscle weakness 38 . A retrospective review of 82 patients with positive anti-MuSK antibody showed that 3/82 patients presented with isolated ocular involvement. Anti-MuSK-positive patients with generalized myasthenia gravis had a similar incidence of ophthalmic findings compared with AChR-positive patients but involvement of the extraocular muscles seemed to be milder and less frequent 39.
Other antibodies. Approximately 10% of patients with myasthenia gravis will have negative serologic testing for AChRAnti-MuSK and LRP4 and are therefore called triple negative. 1550% of these patients will be found to have other autoantibodies including titin agrin Collagen Q and Coarctin 40. Titin antibodies are mostly found in thymoma-associated or late-onset myasthenia gravis usually associated with a more severe form of myasthenia gravis 3140. Agrin and Collagen Q antibodies have also been found in patients with myasthenia gravis but it is unclear if they contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease 3140. In a retrospective study positivity to Coarctin antibodies seemed to be associated with a predominance of OMG and mild generalized myasthenia gravis 41. As of now these antibodies are not routinely tested given the uncertain utility for the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. Electrophysiologic studies. Single-fiber electromyography EMG SFEMG is the most useful electrophysiologic test for patients with OMG especially in the presence of seronegativity. With a sensitivity around 80% for OMG and 94% for generalized myasthenia gravis multiple studies have shown that SFEMG is superior to repetitive nerve stimulation RNS for the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis 234243 .
In myasthenia gravis there is a high variability in the time required for the endplate potential to reach the threshold at the NMJ therefore causing an increase in jitter 24 . Rakocevic et al. have shown a significant correlation between abnormal jitter of orbicularis oculi muscles and response to myasthenic treatment. In this study abnormal jitter had a 100% sensitivity and 85.7% specificity for response to myasthenic therapy 43 . In addition to being a useful diagnostic tool SFEMG also seems to be able to predict the severity of the disease 44 . On the contrary SFEMG is not universally available and in many neurophysiology labs RNS studies are the primary electrophysiologic studies. The sensitivity of the latter is highest for facial or proximal muscles. Therapeutic trial. Although it is ideal to confirm the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis before starting any treatment there are uncommon situations in which the clinical suspicion persists despite negative serologic and electrophysiologic testing. In this context a480 www.co-ophthalmology.com Volume 29 Number 6 November 2018Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved.therapeutic trial can help in making a more definitive diagnosis.
Thymic assessment. A CT or MRI of the chest should be obtained for every patient with suspected myasthenia gravis to assess the thymic status more specifically looking for the presence of a thymoma. Overall 1015% of patients with myasthenia gravis will be diagnosed with a thymoma and the prevalence increases with age 33. The vast majority of patients with myasthenia gravis and thymoma will have positive AChR antibodies 45 but seronegativity does not preclude the possibility of finding a thymoma. CT scan has a sensitivity of approximately 89% to detect thymoma and MRI nearly 100% but CT scan is better for detection of thymus hyperplasia 46. Coexisting conditions. Approximately 15% of patients diagnosed with myasthenia gravis will have another autoimmune disease the most common being autoimmune thyroid disease followed by systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. These conditions are more frequent in patients with early-onset disease and thymic hyperplasia. Myasthenia gravis has been associated with all thyroid disorders the stronger correlation being with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis diffuse toxic goiter and thyrotoxicosis 47.
Given the high prevalence of thyroid disease in myasthenia gravis patients it is reasonable to test for thyroid function and thyroid antibodies in patients with a diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. TREATMENT. The initial goal in the treatment of OMG is to control the symptoms. Once this is achieved therapy is designed to reduce relapses while trying to minimize drug-induced side effects/toxicities. to achieve these goals symptomatic and immunosuppressive therapies are often used in combination. Symptomatic. Initial treatment of myasthenia gravis either ocular or systemic often includes acetylcholinestheraseinhibitors most frequently pyridostigmine 2 . It is typically started at a dose of 30 mg three to four times a day and can be increased up to 150 mg four times a day if tolerated and needed. Some of the generalized subgroups of myasthenia gravis will have a good response to acetylcholine esterase inhibitors except for the anti-MuSK-positive patients who seem less responsive 49. In patients with OMG ptosis generally improves more than the motility deficits. For this reason other therapeutic options commonly need to be used to reach an optimal clinical response 1 50.
Immunosuppressive drugs. Although some patients with OMG will return to a fully functioning state with symptomatic medication alone most will need additional immunosuppression to reach full clinical remission 31. Options include a combination of glucocorticoids and/or steroid-sparing agents most commonly azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil. Prednisone/prednisolone. Prednisone/prednisolone is often the first-line immunosuppression when symptomatic therapy is not sufficient in OMG and can be used alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. Prednisone is started at low doses and gradually increased until achievement of the desired therapeutic effect 51 . Although some authors have used doses up to 60 mg daily it is often sufficient and probably ideal to limit the dosage to 20 mg daily to balance drug-induced toxicities. However even when used in combination with another immunosuppressive agent at least one third of patients will require long-term treatment with glucocorticoids to prevent disease relapses 51 52. In addition to symptomatic control another potential goal of OMG treatment is to avoid generalization and some studies suggested a reduced rate of generalization with early treatment of OMG with prednisone 5356.
Some risk factors have been identified as predictors of a higher risk of generalization and should be considered in the decision to use glucocorticoids in patients with OMG. These include antibody positivity enlargement of the thymus and abnormal electrophysiologic testing in nonocular muscles 1  2857.1040-8738 Copyright 2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved. www.co-ophthalmology.com 481Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved. Steroid-sparing agents. Patients in which prednisone alone is not sufficient to induce disease control or who require higher than minimal doses of glucocorticoids to prevent relapses should be offered additional immunosuppression with steroid-sparing agents to avoid the systemic adverse effects of high-dose prednisone. If a patient has significant medical comorbidities a steroidsparing agent can also be used alone 5859. The two most commonly used agents for treatment of OMG are azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil but cyclosporine and tacrolimus have been used in generalized myasthenia gravis and can be useful in selected cases of OMG. Azathioprine. Azathioprine a purine analogue functioning as a purine antagonist is the most frequently used steroid-sparing immunosuppressant in OMG 1 .
Serious side effects thrombocytopenia leukopenia hepatotoxicity and risk of neoplasia are uncommon at this dosage 60but thiopurinemethyltransferase TPMTactivity should be measured to avoid potential toxicities associated with a low TPMT activity. Blood count and liver analysis should also be performed regularly. The combination of prednisone with azathioprine has been shown to be superior to prednisone alone and permitted a reduction in the prednisone dose 61. Mycophenolate mofetil. In mild-to-moderate cases guidelines recommend mycophenolate mofetil as an adjunct to glucocorticoids although there is no strong evidence to suggest additional benefits 62. A prospective observational study on 31 OMG patients showed favorable evolution with mycophenolate mofetil used as a steroidsparing agent. Eighty seven percentage of patients remained with a purely ocular disease after a 4.2 years follow-up suggesting good disease control and potential prevention of generalization 5863. However a phase III randomized controlled trial done on patients with generalized myasthenia gravis failed to show an additional benefit of mycophenolate mofetil over placebo in patients treated with a 36 weeks taper of systemic prednisone 64. Pregnancy.
Azathioprine has beenused safely in pregnant woman although no study has specifically demonstrated its safety in patients with myasthenia gravis. Mycophenolate mofetil should be avoided due to its potential teratogenicity. Thymectomy. Thymectomy is usually not recommended in patients with OMG without thymoma given the lack of solid evidence that this intervention prevents generalization or improve the course of the disease. Benatar et al. suggested to consider thymectomy in OMG patients when there is failure of remission with standard medical management and the patient exhibits seropositivity to AChR antibodies and/or eletrophysiologic evidence of nonocular muscle involvement but this remains controversial 1 67. Patients found to have thymomas need to undergo thymectomy for oncologic reasons and patients with thymus hyperplasia especially with early onset generalized myasthenia gravis seem to benefit from thymectomy 314557. A recent prospective randomized study conducted on patients with generalized myasthenia gravis suggested that patients younger than 60 years and a disease course of less than 35 years could benefit from thymectomy even in the absence of a thymic anomaly 68  . Conclusion.
New detectable antibodies including LRP4 and anti-MuSK should be added to the diagnostic algorithm to increase the diagnostic sensitivity. Treatment of OMG commonly requires immunosuppression but this can generally be achieved with a low rate of systemic side effects. Development of new steroid-sparing agents in the future years is likely to further improve the disease control while reducing steroid-induced side effects. Acknowledgements. None. end. Financial support and sponsorship. None. end. Conflicts of interest. There are no conflicts of interest.482 www.co-ophthalmology.com Volume 29 Number 6 November 2018Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved. REFERENCES AND RECOMMENDED READING. Papers of particular interest published within the annual period of review have been highlighted as  of special interest  of outstanding interest1. Kerty E Elsais A Argov Z Gilhus NE. EFNS/ENS guidelines for the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. Eur J Neurol 2014 21687693. The article is a summary of the first official-treatment guidelines for ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. 2 end. Gilhus N Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 2016 37525702581.
3 end. Gilhus N Skeie GO Romi F. Myasthenia gravis  autoantibody characteristics and their implications for therapy. Neurology 2016 12259268. The article is an update of all the autoantibodies that have been associated with myasthenia gravis their sensitivity and specificity as well as the value of antibody testing in guiding the treatment of myasthenia gravis. 4 end. Evoli A Tonali E Bartoccioni M Monaco ML. Ocular myasthenia diagnosticand therapeutic problems. Acta Neurol Scand 1988 773135. 5 end. Paragallo JH Bitrian E Kupersmith M et al. Relashionship between age gender and race in patients presenting with myasthenia gravis with only ocular manifestations. J Neuroophthalmol 2016 362932. This is the first demographic study on patients with myasthenia gravis presenting with isolated ocular symptoms. It showed the different distribution of the disease among men and women. 6 end. Gilhus NE. Myasthenia and neuromuscular junction. Curr Opin Neurol 201225523529. 7 end. Vershuuren J Huijbers MG Plomp JJ et al. Pathophysiology of myastheniagravis with antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor muscle-specific kinase and low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 4. Autoimmun Rev 2013 12918923.8. Smith SV Lee AG. Update on ocular myasthenia gravis. Neurol Clin 2017 35115123.
9 end. Weinberg DH Lesser R Vollmer T. Ocular myasthenia a protean disorder.Surv Ophthalmol 1994 39169210. 10 end. Singman EL Matta NS Silbert DI. Use of the Cogan lid twitch to identifymyasthenia gravis. J Neuroophthalmol 2011 31239240. 11 end. Oshe R Griggs R. The Peek sign of myasthenia gravis. Arch Ophthalmol1979 97677679. 12 end. Fakiri M Tavy D Hama-Amin A. Accuracy of the ice test in the diagnosis ofmyasthenia gravis in patients with ptosis. Muscle Nerve 2013 48902904. 13 end. Natarajan B Saifudhenn K Gafoor VA. Accuracy of the ice test in thediagnosis of myasthenic ptosis. Neurol India 2016 6411691172. 14 end. Golnik KC Pena R Lee AG. An ice test for the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis.Ophthalmology 1999 10612821286. 15 end. Borenstein S Desmedt JE. Local cooling in myasthenia. Improvement ofneuromuscular failure. Arch Neurol 1975 32152157. 16 end. Yamamoto D Imai T Tsuda E et al. Effect of local cooling on excitation contraction coupling in myasthenic muscle another mechanism of ice-pack test in myasthenia gravis. Clin Neurophysiol 2017 12823092317. The article offers a new explanation for the effect of cooling on improving muscle function in myasthenic patients.
17 end. Marinos E Buzzard K Fraser C Reddel S. Evaluating the temperature effectsof ice and heat tests on ptosis due to myasthenia gravis. Eye 2018 3213871391. 18 end. Kubis K Danesh-Meyer H Savino P Sergott R. The ice test versus the rest test in myasthenia gravis. Ophthalmology 2000 10719951998. 19 end. Al-Haidar M Benatar M Kaminski H. Ocular myasthenia. Neurol Clin 2018 36241251. 20 end. Ing EB Ing SY Ing T et al. The complication rate of edrophonium testing for suspected myasthenia gravis. Can J Ophthalmol 2000 35141144. 21 end. Mittal MK Barohn RJ Pasnoor M et al. Ocular myasthenia gravis in an academic neuro-ophthalmology clinic clinical features and therapeutic response. J Clin Neuromuscul Dis 2011 134652. 22 end. Benatar M. A systematic review of diagnostic studies in myasthenia gravis. Neuromuscul Disord 2006 16459467. 23 end. Padua L Starberg E Lomonaco M et al. SFEMG in ocular myasthenia gravis diagnosis. Clin Neurophysiol 1000 11112031207. 24 end. Pasnoor M Dimachkie MM Farmakidis C Barohn RJ. Diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. Neurol Clin 2018 36261274. The article is a comprehensive review of the available diagnostic tests in myasthenia gravis and their performance. 25 end. Provenzano C Marino M Scuderi F et al.
J Neuroimmunol 2010 218 102106.26. Lefvert AK Cuenoud S Fulpius BW et al. Binding properties and subclass distribution of antiacetylcholine receptor antibodies in myasthenia gravis. J Neuroimmunol 1981 1125135. 27 end. Rodgaard A Nielsen FC Djurup R et al. Acetylcholine receptor antibody in myasthenia gravis predominance of IgG subclasses 1 and 3. Clin Exp Immunol 1987 678288. 28 end. Binks S Vincent A Palace J. Myasthenia gravis a clinical-immunological update. J Neurol 2016 263826834. 29 end. Meriggioli MN Sanders DB. Autoimmune myasthenia gravis emerging clinical and biological heterogeneity. Lancet Neurol 2009 8475490. 30 end. Roses A Olanow W McAdams M. No direct correlation between serum antiacetylcholine receptor antibody and clinical state of individual patients with myasthenia gravis. Neurology 1981 31220224. 31 end. Gilhus NE Verschuuren JJ. Myasthenia gravis subgroup classification and therapeutic strategies. Lancet Neurol 2015 1410231036. 32 end. Zhang B Tzartos JS Belimezi M et al. Autoantibodies to lipoprotein-related protein 4 in patients with double-seronegative myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 2012 69445451. 33 end. Higushi O Hamuro J Motomura M Yamanashi Y. Autoantibodies to lowdensity lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 in myasthenia gravis.
34 end. Tsivgoulis G Derbenoulas G Kokotis P et al. Double seronegative myasthenia gravis with low density lipoprotein-4 LRP4 antibodies presenting with isolated ocular symptoms. J Neurolog Sci 2014 346328330. 35 end. Guptill JT Sanders DB Evoli A. Anti-MuSK antibody myasthenia gravis clinical findings and response to treatment in two large cohorts. Muscle Nerve 2011 443640. 36 end. Stergiou C Lazaridis K Zouvelou V et al. Titin antibodies in seronegative myasthenia gravis  a new role for an old antigen. J Neuroimmunol 2016 292108115. The article is the first to describe in greater detail the potential role of titin antibodies in seronegative myasthenia gravis. 37 end. Hoch W McConville J Helms S et al. Auto-antibodies to the receptor tyrosinekinase MuSK in patients with myasthenia gravis without acetylcholine receptor antibodies. Nat Med 2001 7365368.38. Evoli A Alboini P Damato V et al. Myasthenia gravis with antibodies to MuSK an update. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2018 14128289. The article offers a comprehensive review on the clinical aspects of myasthenic patients with positive antimuscle specific tyrosine kinase antibodies. 39 end. Evoli A Alboini P Iorio R et al. Pattern of ocular involvement in myastheniagravis with MUSK antibodies. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2017 88 761763.
Gasperi C Melms A Schoser B et al. Anti-agrin autoantibodies in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2014 8219761983. 41 end. Cortes-Vicente E Gallardo E Martinez MA et al. Clinical characteristics of patients with double-seronegtive myasthenia gravis and antibodies to cortactin. JAMA Neurol 2016 7310991104. 42 end. Cui LY Guan YZ Wang H Tang XF. Single fiber electromyography in the diagnosis of ocular myasthenia gravis report of 90 cases. Chin Med J 2004 117848851. 43 end. Rakocevic G Moster M Floeter MK. Single-fiber electromyography in the orbicularis oculi muscle in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis symptoms does abnormal jitter predict response to treatment BMC Neurol 2017 17108. The article was the first to illustrate the correlation between abnormal single fiber EMG in the orbicularis oculi muscle and response to myasthenic treatment in patients with seronegative OMG. 44 end. Baruca M Leonardis L Podnar S Hojs-Fabjan T et al. Single fiber EMG as a prognostic tool in myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2016 5410341040. The article is one of the first to illustrate the prognostic value of single fiber EMG in myasthenia gravis. 45 end. Jordan B Kellner J Jordan K et al. Thymic pathologies in myasthenia gravis apreoperative assessment of CAT scan and nuclear based imaging.
46 end. Klimiec E Quirke M Leite MI et al. Thymus imaging in myasthenia gravis the relevance of thymic imaging in clinical practice. Muscle Nerve 2018 5410341040. 47 end. Lin YP Iqbal U Nguyen PA et al. The concomitant association of thyroid disorders and myasthenia gravis. Transl Neurosci 2017 82730. 48 end. Kubiszewska J Szyluk B Szczudlik P et al. Prevalence and impact of autoimmune thyroid disease on myasthenia gravis course. Brain Behav 2016 6e00537. 49 end. Melzer N Ruck T Fuhr P et al. clinical features pathogenesis and treatment of myasthenia gravis a supplement to the guidelines of the German Neurological Society. J Neurol 2016 26314721494. 50 end. Kupersmith MJ Latkany R Homel P. Development of generalized disease at 2 years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 2003 60243248. 51 end. Benatar M McDermott M Sanders D et al. Efficacy of prednisone for the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis EPITOME a randomized controlled trial. Muscle Nerve 2016 53363368. This is the first randomized controlled trial to assess the efficacy of prednisone in OMG.1040-8738 Copyright 2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved. www.co-ophthalmology.com 483Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved.52. Kupersmith MJ.
J Neurol 2009 25613141320. 53 end. Kaminski HJ Daroff RB. Treatment of ocular myasthenia steroids only when compelled. Arch Neurol 2000 57752753. 54 end. Kupersmith MJ. Does early treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis with prednisone reduce progression to generalized disease J Neurol Sci 2004 217123124. 55 end. Mee J Paine M Byrne E et al. Immunotherapy of ocular myasthenia gravis reduces conversion to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neuroophthalmol 2003 23251255. 56 end. Monsul NT Patwa HS Knorr AM et al. The effect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci 2004 217131133. 57 end. Weinberg DH Rizzo JF Hayes MT et al. Ocular myasthenia gravis predictive value of single-fiber electromyography. Muscle Nerve 1999 2212221227. 58 end. Sanders DB Wolfe GI Narayanaswamy P et al. Developing treatment guidelines for myasthenia gravis. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2018 141295101. 59 end. Sanders DB Wolfe GI Benetar M et al. International consensus guidance for management of myasthenia gravis executive summary. Neurology 2016 87419425. 60 end. Rozsa C Lovas G Fornadi L et al. Safety of long-term combined immunosuppressive treatment in myasthenia gravis  analysis of adverse effects of 163 patients. Eur J Neurol 2006 13947952.61.
A randomized double-blind trial of prednisolone alone or with azathioprine In myasthenia gravis. Neurology 1998 5017781783. 62 end. Burns TM Sanders TB Kaminski HJ et al. Two steps forward one step back mycophenolate mofetil treatment for myasthenia gravis in the United States. Muscle Nerve 2015 51635637. 63 end. Chan JW end. Mycophenolate mofetil for ocular myasthenia. J Neurol 2008 255510513. 64 end. Sanders DB Hart IK Mantagazza R et al. An international phase III randomized trial of mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2008 71400406. 65 end. Norwood F Dhanjal M Hill M et al. Myasthenia in pregnancy best practice and guidelines from a U.K. multispecialty working group. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2014 85538543. 66 end. Ferrero S Pretta S Nicoletti A et al. Myasthenia gravis management issues during pregnancy. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol 2005 121129138. 67 end. Benatar M Kaminski H. Medical and surgical treatment for ocular myasthenia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2006 2CD005081. 68 end. Wolfe GI Kaminski HJ Aban IB et al. Randomized trial of thymectomy in myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 2016 375511522.
Intermittent long-term adrenocorticosteroid treatment of myasthenia gravis. It is widely accepted that a longterm alterna t e -day admin is t ra t ion of adrenal cort icosteroids after t hymec tomy is one of the most effective t rea tments of myas then ia gravis. However  some pat ients with myasthen ia gravis show a t endency to develop steroid dependency and requi re ex t remely pro longed adminis t ra t ion of fairly high doses of steroids. Var ious types of adverse react ions to steroids are likely to occur in such cases. To avoid this i n t e rmi t t en t  s ingle-dose adminis t ra t ion of steroids was pe r fo rmed on a trial basis in the present study. P redn i so lone  in doses of 5 0 1 0 0 m g  was given once every 3 7 days in three s te ro id-dependent myasthenic pat ients  in one case for up to 6 years. The effects of the in t e rmi t t en t t r ea tmen t were as good as and adverse effects less f requent ly found than in single-dose alterna te -day adminis t ra t ion . Globe Subluxation following Long-Term High-Dose Steroid Treatment for Myasthenia Gravis. This case report describes the unusual presentation of a globe subluxation following longterm high-dose oral steroid treatment for myasthenia gravis MG.
Auto-antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor were weakly positive confirming the diagnosis of MG. After initial treatment with pyridostigmine the disease evolved to generalized MG. Plasmapheresis and high-dose steroids were started subsequently. As a side effect of this treatment the patient gained about 30 kg in weight and developed steroid myopathy and a prominent cushingoid facies with bilateral exophthalmos. A year after his initial diagnosis he experienced a spontaneous globe subluxation on the left eye. He was able to immediately reposition the globe manually himself. Four months later a new subluxation occurred. Because of these aforementioned severe side effects of the steroid treatment the methylprednisolone was tapered and replaced by tacrolimus. After about 6 weeks the patient went into remission. We believe that the spontaneous globe subluxations were caused by a weakness of the extraocular muscles in combination with a significant gain of intraorbital fat tissue both induced by cumulative excessive steroids. Steroids are often necessary in the treatment of MG however most of the time a high dose of 64 mg is not needed for ocular MG and especially the continuation of a dose of 58 mg or more for a long period is not recommended.
In case of severe side effects or the need for long-term treatment the use of other immunosuppressive therapies should be considered. Extra care and caution is recommended in patients who are anatomically predisposed with proptosis. 2020 The Authors Published by S. Karger AG Basel Case Rep Ophthalmol 202011534539 DOI 10.1159/000509527  2020 The Authors. Published by S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/cop Dam et al. Globe Subluxation following Long-Term High-Dose Steroid Treatment for Myasthenia Gravis 535. Jasmien Dam Ophthalmology UZ Leuven Bacchuslaan 78/1 BE2140 Borgerhout Antwerp Belgium dam.jasmiengmail.comThis case report describes the unusual presentation of a globe subluxation following longterm high-dose oral steroid treatment for myasthenia gravis MG. The patient presented ini-tially with fluctuating vertical diplopia. Auto-antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor wereweakly positive confirming the diagnosis of MG. After initial treatment with pyridostigminethe disease evolved to generalized MG. Plasmapheresis and high-dose steroids were started subsequently.
He was able to immediately reposition the globe manually himself. Four months later a new subluxation occurred. Because of these aforementioned severe side effects of the steroidtreatment the methylprednisolone was tapered and replaced by tacrolimus. After about 6weeks the patient went into remission. We believe that the spontaneous globe subluxationswere caused by a weakness of the extraocular muscles in combination with a significant gain of intraorbital fat tissue both induced by cumulative excessive steroids. Steroids are oftennecessary in the treatment of MG however most of the time a high dose of 64 mg is notneeded for ocular MG and especially the continuation of a dose of 58 mg or more for a longperiod is not recommended. Careful follow-up is obligatory to timely recognize side effects. In case of severe side effects or the need for long-term treatment the use of other immunosup-pressive therapies should be considered. Extra care and caution is recommended in patientswho are anatomically predisposed with proptosis. 2020 The Authors Published by S. Karger AG BaselCase Rep Ophthalmol 202011534539DOI 10.1159/000509527  2020 The Authors. Published by S.
Of all MG patients 85% present with ocular signs and symptoms the most common being fluctuating ptosis 1 2. Other symptoms include strabismus which can clinically mimic an external ophthalmoplegia or a single or multiple motor cranial nerve palsy. About 17% of all MG patients only have ocular symptoms. The majority of MG patients however develop generalized muscle weakness mostly within 2 years after start of the first symptoms of MG. Treatment options for MG consist of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and in more severe cases immunosuppressive drugs and biologicals rituximab. Surgical treatment thymectomy has a beneficial effect in reducing symptoms and using less steroids 3.Case PresentationA 57-year-old healthy male presented at the Department of Ophthalmology with fluctuating vertical diplopia. Orthoptic examination demonstrated weakness of the inferior rectus muscle. Ocular examination showed an inborn tendency towards proptosis. There were no signs of ptosis. The diagnosis of MG was established by the presence of acetylcholine receptor auto-antibodies. Single-fiber electromyography of the frontal muscle and computed tomography of the brain were normal.
Initially he showed a good clinical response to pyridostigmine in increasing dose up to 720 mg. But after 2 months his ocular symptoms worsened and he started to experience abdominal cramps secondary to the high doses of pyridostigmine. Plasmapheresis was started and pyridostigmine was tapered to 600 mg. The patient reported initially an improvement of his symptoms after plasmapheresis but 3 months later he developed a full ptosis of his left eye. His neurologist then started oral steroid treatment 64 mg methylprednisolone and increased the dose of pyridostigmine to 720 mg. This resulted in a rapid clinical improvement. One year after his diagnosis of MG he presented again at the emergency Department of Ophthalmology. The patient described he had experienced a sudden protrusion of the left eye with inability to close the eyelids upon awakening. This description fits with a globe subluxation. Fortunately he had been able to push the globe back himself causing a big corneal abrasion. By this time he had already been on 58 mg of methylprednisolone for 6 months. Pyridostigmine had been tapered to 360 mg because of the gastrointestinal side effects. Ocular motility examination showed improvement of the ductions.
Therefore topical prostaglandin treatment was initiated to control the intraocular pressure. The patient had gained about 30 kg and had developed a significant cushingoid facies over the past 6 months Fig. 1 end. He was unable to climb stairs or carry a bucket of water due to steroid myopathy in conjunction with generalized MG. As the treatment of his disease was not according to international recommendations he was referred to a different neurologist M.D.B. who tapered methylprednisolone and pyridostigmine and added 3 mg of tacrolimus. This resulted in a quick remission. Just 10 weeks after the introduction of tacrolimus to the treatment the methylprednisolone could already be tapered to 4 mg. Two months later however a new subluxation occurred despite optimal medical treatment. To avoid new subluxations lateral tarsorrhaphy was performed.Case Rep Ophthalmol 202011534539DOI 10.1159/000509527  2020 The Authors. Published by S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copDam et al. Globe Subluxation following Long-Term High-Dose Steroid Treatment for Myasthenia Gravis536DiscussionSpontaneous globe luxation is a rare condition which occurs when the equator of the globe protrudes anterior to the orbital rim.
Globe subluxation is most commonly associated with thyroid eye disease Graves eye disease shallow orbit and floppy eye syndrome. Globe subluxations caused by general anesthesia 4 or retrobulbar space-occupying lesions have been reported as well. In anatomically predisposed patients this distressful event can occur after Valsalva maneuver and eye or lid manipulation 5. In MG patients a second auto-immune disorder especially thyroid diseases frequently occurs. In Graves eye disease an increase in retro-orbital fat and myositis occurs. Therefore it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of MG patients with proptosis and TSH TSI antiTg and anti-TPO should be analyzed. This patient showed no signs of floppy eyelid syndrome. His TSH level was normal and TSI anti-Tg and anti-TPO were negative. As he showed no other signs of thyroid eye disease apart from the proptosis and the MRI showed only increased orbital fat and atrophic muscles rather than hypertrophy Fig. 2 we do not believe he had thyroid eye disease. Therefore this is the first case of spontaneous globe subluxation associated with MG threated with long-term high-dose steroids. This patient was predisposed because of his natural physiognomy with slight proptosis.
2 both induced by long-term high-dose steroid therapy in an anatomically predisposed orbit.Steroids are part of the first-line treatment for MG however a high dose of 64 mg is often not necessary for ocular MG. Moreover the continuation of a dose of 58 mg or more for more than 6 months is not recommended.Side effects like myopathy are commonly seen with steroid treatment. Careful follow-up is necessary to adjust treatment in case of serious side effect. Extra care and caution must be taken in anatomically predisposed patients with proptosis. In case of prolonged need for treatment other forms of immunosuppressive therapy e.g. azathioprine tacrolimus should be considered.Statement of EthicsWritten informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this report and any presented images.Conflict of Interest StatementThe authors have no conflict of interest to declare.Funding SourcesNone.Case Rep Ophthalmol 202011534539DOI 10.1159/000509527  2020 The Authors. Published by S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copDam et al. Globe Subluxation following Long-Term High-Dose Steroid Treatment for Myasthenia Gravis537Author ContributionsJ.D. first draft of paper and final revision. J.D end. and F.M. co-writing of manuscript literature search reviewing and editing. C.C end.
Myasthenia Gravis. Boca Raton Florida CRC Press 1993. p end. 17 end. 2 Grob D Brunner N Namba T Pagala M. Lifetime course of myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve. 2008Feb3721419. 3 Wang L Zhang Y He M. Clinical predictors for the prognosis of myasthenia gravis. BMC Neurol. 2017Apr17177. 4 Clendenen SR Kostick DA. Ocular globe luxation under general anesthesia. Anesth Analg. 2008Nov107516301. 5 Kunesh JC Katz SE. Spontaneous globe luxation associated with contact lens placement. CLAO J end. 2002Jan28124. Exacerbation of myasthenia gravis by alendronate. Myasthenia gravis is an important indication for the long-term prescription of corticosteroids. We present a patient with myasthenia gravis who had worsening of symptoms associated with the use of alendronate. A 24-year-old patient with myasthenia gravis had been administered oral systemic corticosteroid deflazacort 40 mg/day for 3 years in order to control his myasthenic symptoms. One year earlier his lumbar spine bone mineral density was decreased. He was started on oral calcium/vitamin D3 and alendronate 70-mg tablets once a week for osteoporosis. He reported an exacerbation of muscle weakness and extreme fatigue on days when he took alendronate. He could not work on these days and has to be on leave.
He did not experience muscle weakness and fatigue with ibandronate therapy. Alendronate should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis who have corticosteroid-induced. Keywords Alendronate .Myasthenia gravis . Osteoporosis. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis is an important indication for the long-term prescription of corticosteroids 1. Osteoporosis is a major complication of corticosteroid therapy. Prophylaxis for osteoporosis is recommended if patients are prescribed corticosteroids over 3 months 2 3. Bisphosphonates reduce bone loss in corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis and should be considered in the management of patients with myasthenia gravis treated with corticosteroid 4. We present a patient with known myasthenia gravis who developed worsening symptoms associated with the use of alendronate. Case report. A 24-year-old male patient diagnosed with myasthenia gravis for 4 years was referred to our outpatient clinic with the complaints of widespread muscle weakness and extreme fatigue after taking alendronate tablets for corticosteroidinduced osteoporosis. He had been administered azathioprine 100 mg/day and oral systemic corticosteroid deflazacort 3040 mg/day for 3 years. This treatment got his myasthenia gravis under control.
His lumbar spine bone mineral density was decreased L24 0.382 g/cm2 T-score 2.5 Z-score 2.5. He was started on oral calcium/vitamin D3 and alendronate Fosamax 70-mg tablets once a week for osteoporosis. He complained of muscle weakness in the lower and upper extremities on the days that he took alendronate. He also complained of so extreme fatigue that he could not work on these days. He began taking alendronate on weekends when he was on leave. Exacerbation of the myasthenic symptoms lasted no more than a day. He had symptoms on each use of alendronate for a year. He took alendronate to show the signs before coming to our clinic. On presentation to our clinic S. Kesikburun  . Gzelkk A end. K end. Tan Department of PMR Turkish Armed Forces Rehabilitation Center Glhane Military Medical Academy Ankara Turkey e-mail serdarkbgmail.com S. Alay Department of Neurology Glhane Military Medical Academy Ankara Turkey F. Yavuz The Clinics of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Military Hospital of Etimesgut Ankara Turkeymuscle weakness was elicited in the proximal muscles of the upper and lower extremities decrease in muscle power to 3/5 over both sides of shoulder and hip girdle muscles. There was also a slight upper lid ptosis on the left side. Multiple routine blood tests were normal.
He did not experience muscle weakness and fatigue with ibandronate therapy. Discussion. A variety of pharmacological agents may affect neuromuscular transmission and exacerbate or induce myasthenia gravis 5. The potential for bisphosphonates to induce myasthenia gravis has been reported in two prior cases. Raja et al. 6 reported a patient without neuromuscular symptoms who developed ocular myasthenia symptoms ptosis and diplopia after risedronate therapy for osteoporosis. Palin and Singh 7 described a case of myasthenia gravis triggered with pamidronate for the treatment of hypercalcemia in primary hyperthyroidism. In our case alendronate exacerbated a known myasthenia gravis. Because bisphosphonate use was crucial in the management of corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis we prescribed another type of bisphosphonate. Intravenous ibandronate was chosen due to its use once every3 months and the absence of report of aggravation in myasthenic symptoms.To our knowledge this report of exacerbation of myasthenia gravis by alendronate is the first in the literature. Alendronate should be employed with caution and close monitoring in patients with known myasthenia gravis.Conflicts of interest None. Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia With Corticosteroids.
Ocular MG with weakness restricted to the ocular muscles is generally considered a mild subtype of MG. Nonetheless the diagnosis and management of purely ocular MG may be particularly challenging and frustrating. Diplopia and ptosis resulting from dysfunction of neuromuscular junctions NMJs of extraocular skeletal muscles and levator palpebral muscles in ocular MG often impair vision sufficiently to interfere with work and quality of life. Whereas ocular symptoms are often the presenting symptoms of MG they also tend to be the symptoms most refractory to treatment. Response to anticholinesterases is often incomplete and pharmacological suppression of the NMJ immune attack or thymectomy is often required for resolution of symptoms. The judicious use of corticosteroids represents a key component of management of individual patients with ocular MG. A second consideration is that half the patients with MG with weakness restricted to ocular muscles clinically reveal decrement on repetitive nerve stimulation in extremity muscles. Furthermore most patients with purely clinical ocular MG at the onset of disease develop generalized weakness especially within the first year. This represents a subgroup of patients with ocular MG at risk for rapid deterioration.
In this context immune treatment is warranted in individual patients with ocular MG and electrophysiological evidence of generalized MG. A third consideration arises from recent observations suggesting that withholding immune treatment in mild ocular MG may predispose to severe disease. Myasthenia gravis commences with ocular symptoms in 75% of patients a susceptibility that may be related to antigenic structure and/or a reduced safety factor at the ocular muscles. Generalized MG may result from increased antibody production and expansion of antigenic molecular targets. Patients treated with immune intervention early in the course of ocular MG are less likely to develop generalized disease. The duration of the initial period of NMJ immune attack may be an important determinant for subsequent severity of disease. Correlation of increased duration and severity of subsequent disease with the duration of the initial immune attack occurs in other autoimmune conditions including relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. It is possible that an unchecked immune response in ocular MG leads to structural changes in selfantigens at the NMJ and destruction of the NMJ architecture.
Symptomatic treatment with anticholinesterases may improve clinical symptoms but mask ongoing autoimmune damage. Abrogation of the immune attack would limit end organ damage and resultant long-term immune stimulationconstitutinganadditional reason to support the use of immune treatments in selected patients early in the course of the disease. Patients with MG treated with corticosteroids require close supervision.Optimally corticosteroidsare used to help induce and maintain a clinical remission. Remission induction generally requires high oral doses for a period of 2 to 3 months. Potential complications include MG worsening during the first 2 weeks of therapy asepticbonenecrosishyperglycemiahypertensionosteoporosis immune compromise psychological disturbance growth retardation inchildren cataracts glaucoma proximalmyopathyanddysmorphic soft tissue changes. Complications are to be identified and treated early they are best prevented. Ancillary treatmentssuchaselandronatetoprevent osteoporosis are useful.
Additional strategies that may limit the need for long-term high steroid doses include thymectomy early in the course of the disease as well as azathioprine during the period of steroid dose reduction. The differential diagnosis of ocular MG includes oculopharyngeal dystrophy mitochondrial disorders congenital MG and other NMJ disorders oculomotor neuropathies and brainstem lesions. In autoimmune ocular MG the usual laboratory findings that support a diagnosis of MG may be absent. SeFrom the Department of Neurology University of California Davis. CONTROVERSIES IN NEUROLOGY. SECTION EDITOR VLADIMIR HACHINSKI MD DSc. Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia With Corticosteroids. end. Yes end. end. Mark A end. Agius MD FRCP C Glasg. O CULAR findings of-ten represent thefirst and some-times the sole man-ifestation of acquired MG.12 Ocular MG with weakness restricted to the ocular muscles is generally considered a mild subtype of MG. Nonetheless the diagnosis and management of purely ocular MG may be particularly challenging and frustrating.3 Diplopia and ptosis resulting from dysfunction of neuromuscular junctions NMJs of extraocular skeletal muscles and levator palpebral muscles in ocular MG often impair vision sufficiently to interfere with work and quality of life.
Response to anticholinesterases is often incomplete3 and pharmacological suppression of the NMJ immune attack or thymectomy is often required for resolution of symptoms.4-6 The judicious use of corticosteroids represents a key component of management of individual patients with ocular MG. A second consideration is that half the patients with MG with weakness restricted to ocular muscles clinically reveal decrement on repetitive nerve stimulation in extremity muscles.7 Furthermore most patients with purely clinical ocular MG at the onset of disease develop generalized weakness especially within the first year.289 This represents a subgroup of patients with ocular MG at risk for rapid deterioration.28 Myasthenic crisis is better prevented thantreated. In this context immune treatment is warranted in individual patients with ocular MG and electrophysiological evidence of generalized MG.A third consideration arises from recent observations suggesting that withholding immune treatment in mild ocular MG may predispose to severe disease.910 Myasthenia gravis commences with ocular symptoms in 75% of patients1 a susceptibility that may be related to antigenic structure and/or a reduced safety factor at the ocular muscles.11 Generalized MG may result.
Patients treated with immune intervention early in the course of ocular MG are less likely to develop generalized disease.910 The duration of the initial period of NMJ immune attack may be an important determinant for subsequent severity of disease. Correlation of increased duration and severity of subsequent disease with the duration of the initial immune attack occurs in other autoimmune conditions including relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.12 It is possible that an unchecked immune response in ocular MG leads to structural changes in selfantigens at the NMJ and destruction of the NMJ architecture. In turn exposure of novel antigens may potentiate the autoimmune attack leading to disease persistence and increased disease severity. Symptomatic treatment with anticholinesterases may improve clinical symptoms but mask ongoing autoimmune damage.
Potential complications include MG worsening during the first 2 weeks of therapy asepticbonenecrosishyperglycemiahypertensionosteoporosis immune compromise psychological disturbance growth retardation inchildren cataracts glaucoma proximalmyopathyanddysmorphic soft tissue changes.13 Complications are to be identified and treated early they are best prevented. Ancillary treatmentssuchaselandronatetoprevent osteoporosis are useful. Most steroid complications correlate with cumulativedose.Animportantmeans to prevent complications in patients receiving steroids is to limit the totalsteroiddose.Thismaybeachieved and relapses kept to a minimum by dose reduction in a slow monitored fashionoverseveralmonths.Alternateday therapy reduces hypothalamicpituitary suppression. Additional strategies that may limit the need for long-term high steroid doses include thymectomy early in the course of the disease as well as azathioprine during the period of steroid dose reduction.1314The differential diagnosis of ocular MG includes oculopharyngeal dystrophy mitochondrial disorders congenital MG and other NMJ disorders oculomotor neuropathies and brainstem lesions.315 In autoimmune ocular MG the usual laboratory findings that support a diagnosis of MG may be absent. Se- end.
University of California Davis.CONTROVERSIES IN NEUROLOGYARCH NEUROL / VOL 57 MAY 2000 WWW.ARCHNEUROL.COM 7502000 American Medical Association. All rights reserved. Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a University of St. Andrews Library User on 04/29/2015rum acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies are undetectable in 30% to 45% of cases716 and repetitive decremental study results are normal in 50%.7 Single-fiber electromyography often helps to confirm the diagnosis of ocular MG.717 In vitro recording of intact isolated muscle fibersprovides increasedsensitivity and is occasionally necessary.18 The pathology clinical course and response to immune treatment of patients with acquired MG without detectable AChR antib. odies ie seronegative MG parallels that of patients with seropositive MG suggesting that seronegative MG is also autoimmune. Seropositivity is more likely to be detected by testing for modulating and blocking antibodies in addition to binding ones16 and by employing an assay that detects AChRs isolated from human ocular muscles.19 It is also possible that antigens other than AChRs are immune targets in these patients.
An improvement induced by PE may be used as a predictor of those patients who are likely to benefit from steroids. High-dose intravenous gamma globulin is also likely to provide short-term benefit and is often used in lieu of PE.In conclusion immune treatments including corticosteroids facilitate the management of many patients disabled with ocular myas-thenia as well as those who demonstrate subclinical evidence of generalized MG. In addition immune treatment in patients with mild disease seems to protect patients from developing more severe generalized disease. Each patient however needs to be evaluated on an individual and continual basis. Thymectomy carries less potential for adverse effects than corticosteroids and consequently should be the first line of immune treatment in ocular MG. Children and the elderly are particularly susceptible to developing corticosteroid complications. Thymectomy PE and intravenous gamma globulin represent alternative immune treatments to corticosteroids in these high-risk patients.Accepted for publication October 20 1999.Corresponding author Mark A. Agius MD FRCP C Glasg Department of Neurology University of California Davis 1515 Newton Ct Room 510 Davis CA 95616-4859 e-mail maagiusucdavis.edu.REFERENCES1. Osserman KE.
Invest Ophthalmol. 19676277-287. 2 end. Grob D Brunner NG Namba T. The natural course of myasthenia gravis and effect of therapeutic measures. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1981377652-669. 3 end. Sergott RC. Ocular myasthenia. In Lisak RP ed. Handbook of Myasthenia Gravis and Myasthenic Syndromes. New York NY Marcel Dekker Inc 199421-32. 4 end. Fischer KC Schwartzman RJ. Oral corticosteroids in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. Neurology. 197424795-798. 5 end. Kupersmith MJ Moster M Bhuiyan S Warren F Weinberg H. Beneficial effects of corticosteroids on ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol. 1996 53802-804.6. Wilkins KB Bulkley GB. Thymectomy in the integrated management of myasthenia gravis. Adv Surg end. 199932105-133. 7 end. Sanders DB. Electrophysiological and pharmacological tests in neuromuscular junction disorders. In Lisak RP ed. Handbook of Myasthenia Gravis and Myasthenic Syndromes. New York NY Marcel Dekker Inc 1994103-108. 8 end. Simpson JA Westenberg MR Magee HR. Myasthenia gravis an analysis of 295 cases. Acta Neurol Scand. 196642suppl 237-27. 9 end. Grob D Arsura EL Brunner NG Namba T. The course of myasthenia gravis and therapies affecting outcome. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1987505 472-499. 10 end. Sommer N Sigg B Melms A et al.
J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 199762156-162. 11 end. KaminskiHJ.Acetylcholinereceptorepitopes inocularmyasthenia.AnnNYAcadSci.1998841309-319. 12 end. Lindsey JW. Characteristics of initial and reinduced experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and multiple sclerosis. Crit Rev Clin Lab Sci. 1995 32121-182. 13 end. Richman DP Agius MA. Myasthenia gravis pathogenesis and treatment. Semin Neurol. 199414 106-110. 14 end. Chaudry V Cornblath DR. Immunosuppressive therapy for myasthenia gravis. In Lisak RP ed. Handbook of Myasthenia Gravis and Myasthenic Syndromes. New York NY Marcel Dekker Inc 1994341-374. 15 end. Lee AG end. Ocular myasthenia gravis. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1996639-41. 16 end. Howard FM Lennon VA Finley J Matsumoto J Elveback LR. Clinical correlations of antibodies that bind block or modulate human acetylcholine receptors in myasthenia gravis. Ann N Y Acad Sci.1987505526-538. 17 end. Rivero A Crovetto L Lopez L Maselli R Nogues M. Single-fiber electromyography of extraocular muscles a sensitive method for the diagnosis of ocular myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve. 1995 18943-947. 18 end. Maselli RA. Pathophysiology of myasthenia gravis and Lambert-Eaton syndrome. Neurol Clin. 1994 12285-303. 19 end. Vincent A Newsom-Davis J.
Clin Exp Immunol. 198249257-265. 20 end. Agius MA Zhu S Kirvan CA et al. Rapsyn antibodies in myasthenia gravis. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998841516-521.ARCH NEUROL / VOL 57 MAY 2000 WWW.ARCHNEUROL.COM 7512000 American Medical Association. All rights reserved. Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a University of St. Andrews Library User on 04/29/2015. Therapeutic and Immunoregulatory Effects of Tacrolimus in Patients with Refractory Generalized Myasthenia Gravis. Objectives The aim of this study wasto investigate the efficacy of tacrolimus treatment in patients with refractory generalized myasthenia gravis MG and explore its impact on lymphocytic phenotypes and related cytokines mRNA expression. Methods A total of 24 refractory generalized MG patients were enrolled. Before treatment and at 2 6 and 12 months after tacrolimus treatment the therapeutic effect was evaluated by the quantitative MG score of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America QMG Manual Muscle Test MMT MG-specific Activities of Daily Living MG-ADL 15-item Myasthenia Gravis Quality-of-Life Scale MG-QOL15 and changes of prednisone dosage.
Results Significantly decreased QMG MMT MG-ADL and MG-QOL15 were observed at all time points during the tacrolimus treatment. The dosage of prednisone also reduced at the end of the observation period with only 6 adverse events reported. The immunological impact of tacrolimus was revealed by reduced percentages of Tfh Breg CD19BAFF-R B cells and increased percentages of Treg cells as well as down-regulated expression of IL-2 IL-4 IL-10 and IL-13 mRNA levels in PBMCs during the treatment. Conclusion Our study indicated the clinical efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with refractory generalized MG. The underlying immunoregulatory mechanism of tacrolimus may involve alterations in the phenotypes of peripheral blood lymphocytes and Th1/Th2-related cytokine expression of PBMCs. 2020 S end. Karger AG Basel Hui Wua and Zhangyang Wang contributed equally to this work. D ow nl oa de d by . Chongbo Zhao Department of Neurology Huashan Hospital Shanghai Medical College Fudan University No. 12 Wulumuqi Middle Road Shanghai 200040 China zhaochongbo  fudan.edu.cnYan Wang Central Lab Huashan Hospital Shanghai Medical College Fudan University No. 12 Wulumuqi Middle Road Shanghai 200040 China wangy009  126.com  2020 S.
Results Significantly decreased QMG MMT MG-ADL and MG-QOL15 were observed at all time points during the tacrolimus treatment. The dosage of prednisone also reduced at the end of the observation period with only 6 adverse events reported. The immunological impact of tacrolimus was revealed by reduced percentages of Tfh Breg CD19BAFF-R B cells and increased percentages of Treg cells as well as down-regulated expression of IL-2 IL-4 IL-10 and IL-13 mRNA levels in PBMCs during the treatment. Conclusion Our study indicated the clinical efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with refractory generalized MG. The underlying immunoregulatory mechanism of tacrolimus may involve alterations in the phenotypes of peripheral blood lymphocytes and Th1/Th2-related cytokine expression of PBMCs. 2020 S end. Karger AG BaselHui Wua and Zhangyang Wang contributed equally to this work.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AMWu/Wang/Xi/Liu/Yan/Song/Wang/Jing/ Wang/Zhao Eur Neurol2 DOI 10.1159/000510396IntroductionMyasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune disorder caused by autoantibodies directed toward neuromuscular junction proteins including the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR muscle-specific tyrosine kinase or low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4.
Conventional treatments including acetylcholinesterase inhibitors long-term glucocorticoids combined with immunosuppressive agents plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulin enable patients to meet the basic treatment goals of minimal manifestations in most cases. However 1015% of MG patients are defined as refractory MG which is a term to describe patients who do not respond well to the conventional treatment or are unable to withstand the side effects.Tacrolimus FK506 is an immunosuppressant that is widely used after organ transplantation to prevent the risk of organ rejection 2. Specifically tacrolimus can bind to the immunophilin FKBP12 to form a complex that further inhibit calcineurin which eventually results in the blockade of the NFAT pathway and IL-2 transcription which are crucial in the T-cell activation and differentiation 3 4.In recent years tacrolimus has been successfully used in MG treatment 2 57.
In the present study we aimed to investigate the clinical efficacy of tacrolimus using multiple clinical scales and analyze its immunoregulatory impact by examining the resulting proportion of peripheral T-Cell/B-Cell phenotypes and mRNA expression of crucial cytokine genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs.Materials and MethodsPatients This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and received ethical approval from the Medical Ethics Committee of Jingan Distr. ict Center Hospital of Shanghai Fudan University Ethics reference number 2016-21. All patients provided their written informed consent.Twenty-four refractory generalized MG patients were enrolled in the study between October 2017 and November 2018 from the hospital. Among these patients 18 of them were positive for the AChR antibody while the other 6 patients were seronegative including muscle-specific tyrosine kinase and lipoprotein receptorrelated protein 4 antibody. Thymoma was found in 8 patients. All patients had a confirmed diagnosis of generalized MG Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA class 2 3 or 4 and met refractory MG criteria 9 10.
Blood concentrations of tacrolimus were monitored during the treatment at week 2 month 2 6 and 12. The recommended adequate tacrolimus concentration is 4.7 ng/mL 11.Clinical Evaluation Disease activity was evaluated before treatment and at 2 6 and 12 months after the initiation of tacrolimus treatment and included the following measurements QMG Manual Muscle Test MMT MG-ADL and 15-item Myasthenia Gravis Quality-ofLife Scale MG-QOL15.Flow Cytometric Immunophenotyping At baseline and at 2 6 and 12 months after the initiation of tacrolimus heparin-anticoagulated blood samples were collected from. the elbow vein of patients. Within 60 min of venipuncture fresh-drawn samples were incubated with fluorescently labeled antibodies for 20 min at room temperature. T-cell and B-cell phenotypes were defined by analyzing the expression of surface biomarkers with the following antibodies Anti-Human CD3Values are given as n % unless indicated otherwise. MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America AChR acetylcholine receptor.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AM. Tacrolimus in Treating Refractory.
All antibodies were purchased from eBioscience Inc. San Diego CA USA. After RBC lysis samples were immediately run on the Coulter Epics XL flow cytometer Beckman Coulter Miami FL USA. Data were analyzed using FlowJo software FlowJo Software Tree Star Ashland OR USA.Cytokine mRNA Qualification PBMCs were isolated from fresh-drawn whole blood using the Ficoll/Hypaque solution Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Piscataway NJ USA. RNA was then isolated from PBMCs using the TRIzol reagent Invitrogen Corp. Carlsbad CA USA and was quantitated and assessed for purity by UV spectrophotometry BioRad Hercules CA USA. Complementary DNA was synthesized in a Perkin Elmer Cetus DNA thermal cycler Perkin Elmer Inc. Waltham MA USA using the PrimeScript RT Master Mix Real Time Kit Takara Shiga Japan with a reverse transcription step for 15 min at 37C followed by final inactivation for 5 s at 85C. Quantitative PCR was performed using SYBR Premix Ex Taq Kit Takara Shiga Japan. Primers of cytokine genes and the housekeeping gene -actin were designed using the Oligo 7 primer analysis software Colorado Springs CO USA and were commercially synthesized Sangon Shanghai China. Sequences of these primers are provided in online suppl. Table 1 see www.karger.com/doi/10.1159/000510396 for all online suppl.
A QuantStudio 5 Real-Time PCR System Applied Biosystems Waltham MA USA was used for PCR amplification with the following cycling parameters initial denaturation at 95C for 30 s followed by 40 cycles of 95C for 5 s and 60C for 34 s. The 2Ct method was used to analyze relative changes in gene expression.Statistical Analysis Statistical analyses were conducted with SPSS version 22.0 software SPSS Inc. Chicago IL USA and GraphPad Prism 7 software GraphPad Software Inc. LA Jolla CA USA. Normal distribution and homogeneity of variance were identified using the Shapiro-Wilk test and Levenes test. Comparisons of clinical scale scores proportions of multiple immune cell subtypes andcytokine mRNA expression levels between 2 different time points were analyzed by the paired t test for normally distributed data or nonparametric Wilcoxon test for non-normally distributed data. The changes of clinical scale scores between patients with mean blood concentrations within the therapeutic window and those below the therapeutic window were analyzed by the Mann-Whitney U test. Mann-Whitney U tests were also used to compare the changes of clinical scale scores between patients with and without thymoma.
All 24 patients completed the 12-month clinical follow-up. Patients demonstrated significant improvements in clinical symptoms and the quality of life which were reflected in the decreases of QMG MMT MGADL and MG-QOL15 scores at different time points after treatment p < 0.05 Fig. 1. At month 12 patients showed continuous improvement with an average tacrolimus level of 5.04  2.12 ng/mL in the serum. Mean scores of QMG MMT ADL and MG-QOL15 declined significantly at the end of the study period which were 5.38 8.75 3.33 and 8.21 respectively. Additionally 5 patients achieved the level of minimal manifestations-3 MM-3 according to the MGFA Post-Intervention Status classification. Twenty-three patients 95.8% took less prednisone at the final visit and the median prednisone doses were statistically reduced by 61.25% p < 0.001.Between adequate tacrolimus concentration >4.7 ng/ mL group and low tacrolimus concentration <4.7 ng/ mL group no statistical significance was found in QMGn number of patients SD standard deviation QMG Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score MMT Myasthenia Gravis Specific Manual Muscle Testing MG-ADL Myasthenia Gravis Specific Activities of Daily Living .
Table 2 end. And QMG MGADL and MG-QOL15 scores also showed no difference between patients with and without thymoma p > 0.05 online suppl. Table 3 end. However thymoma patients tended to decrease more MMT scores at month 12 p  0.032 online suppl. Table 3.Regarding the safety 6 patients 25.0% reported mild adverse events during the study period including 5 cases of hyperglycemia and 2 cases of alopecia. All other patients tolerated the treatment well. Detailed clinical information of the MG patients is shown in online suppl. Table 4 end. Tacrolimus decreased percentages of Tfh Breg and CD19BAFF-R B cells and increased percentages of Treg cells.Subsets of T and B cells were detected in the peripheral blood of 18 patients at baseline 2 and 6 months while 17 patients continued to follow up at month 12. Alterations in different lymphocyte phenotypes at each time point are shown in Table3. No statistically significant differences were found for the populations of CD4 and CD8 T cells at baseline and different time pointsafter treatment p > 0.05 Fig.2a b. We further analyzed the proportion of Tfh cells CD4CXCR5ICOS T cells out of the CD4 T cells and Treg cells CD4CD25Foxp3 T cells in CD4CD25 T cells.
Additionally the population of Treg cells was in an upward trend at month 6 and this change was statistically significant p  0.034 Fig.2d.Tacrolimus significantly decreased the percentages of CD19 B cells at months 6 and 12 p  0.007 p < 0.001. And the proportion of CD19BAFF-R B cells in CD19 B cells at week 6 was statistically reduced by over 34.71% p  0.003 and further diminished at month 12 p < 0.001 Fig. 2e. Simultaneously the ratios of Breg cells CD19CD5CD1d B cells were also declined after 12 months of tacrolimus treatment 1.38  1.04 vs. 0.70  0.60 p  0.015 Fig.2f g. Online suppl. Figure 1 presents the dot plot representation of flow cytometry data of patient 11 at baseline and at month 6.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AM. Tacrolimus in Treating Refractory. Generalized MG5Eur Neurol DOI 10.1159/000510396Table 3.
0.353 18 70.147.33 0.034 17 67.3912.66 0.590 CD19 B cell 18 3.941.86 18 3.691.78 0.609 18 2.541.13 0.007 17 1.931.12 <0.001 CD19BAFF-R cell/CD19 B cell 18 3.631.70 18 3.121.85 0.274 18 2.371.39 0.003 17 1.851.14 <0.001 Breg cell/CD19 B cell 18 1.381.04 18 1.390.96 0.979 18 1.070.91 0.174 17 0.700.60 0.015n number of patients SD standard deviation.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AMWu/Wang/Xi/Liu/Yan/Song/Wang/Jing/ Wang/Zhao Eur Neurol6 DOI 10.1159/000510396m. RNA Expression of IL-2 IL-4 IL-10 and IL-13 Are Decreased after Tacrolimus Treatment At baseline as well as at months 2 and 6 the mRNAexpression profiles of 7 cytokine genes were examined in 11 patients by qRT-PCR Fig.3. A notably lower expression level of IL-2 was detected at month 2 compared with its level measured prior to treatment p  0.041 while the mRNA levels of IL-4 IL-10 and IL-13 did not begin to be downregulated until month 6 IL-4 p  0.026 IL-10 p  0.026 IL-13 p  0.013.
Additionally we demonstrated that the presence of thymoma indicated better responsiveness of tacrolimus but no significant relationship was found between tacrolimus concentration and its efficacy. Our data are consistent with previous work by Nagane et al. 12 using multivariate logistic regression analysis. However this result needs to be inter-D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AM. Tacrolimus in Treating Refractory. Generalized MG7Eur Neurol DOI 10.1159/000510396preted with caution since the sample size in our cohort is relatively small.Among T-cell phenotypes a previous study demonstrated that the frequency of circulating Tfh cells was higher in MG patients and it was positively correlated with the disease severity and anti-AChR antibody titers suggesting a possible pathogenic role of Tfh in MG 13. And it is generally believed that Tregs in MG patients may have numerical functional and/or migratory deficits thus leading to the breakdown of self-tolerance 14. In the present study we found that tacrolimus could decrease the frequency of Tfh cells in MG at months 6 and 12 which could be due to Tfh cells are more dependent on NFAT signaling than any other CD4 T-cell subsets 15.
Besides our research showed that tacrolimus did not alter the percentage of other T-cell subtypes including the CD4 CD8.Our current study revealed that the total proportion of CD19 B cells and the ratios of CD19BAFF-R B cells and Breg cells were declined after tacrolimus treatment. B cells can also signal through the NFAT pathway to mediate downstream effects of B-cell receptor BCR engagement 17. Additionally a recent report showed that tacrolimus has a suppressive effect on BCR-mediated B-cell proliferation 18.CD19BAFF-R B cells may participate in the pathogenesis of MG since Zhao et al. 16 19 observed a positive correlation between the level of CD19BAFF-R B cells and QMG scores. The suppression of CD19BAFFR B cells by tacrolimus might reflect its therapeutic effect. On the contrary a reduced frequency of Breg cells has been reported in MG patients which is inversely correlated with disease severity 20. The effect of decreased proportion of Breg cells after tacrolimus treatment on the MG pathophysiology is still unclear.Our data also implied that tacrolimus might also achieve the control of the autoimmune response in MG by suppressing Th1- and Th2-related cytokines in PBMCs. IL-2 belonging to the Th1-related cytokines could facilitate the expansion of the immune response.
In regard to downregulated Th2-related cytokines the role of IL-4 in the pathogenesis of MG is still debatable while emerging evidence suggests that IL-13 and IL-10 may facilitate the development and progression of MG 16 21.Our study has some limitations. First the sample size in our cohort was comparatively small. Second all patients in our cohort received co-medications with corticosteroids or underwent thymectomies which may have confounded our results. Additionally we failed to measure the mRNA expression of cytokines at month 12. We also did not analyze changes in the function of different lymphocyte phenotypes after tacrolimus treatment. It will be of interest to examine immune cells quantitatively and qualitatively over a longer period of time to elucidate the comprehensive pharmacological effects of tacrolimus.ConclusionsOverall the present study further demonstrated the efficacy of tacrolimus in refractory generalized MG. We also revealed that tacrolimus reduced the percentages of peripheral Tfh Breg CD19BAFF-R B CD19 B cells and increased the percentages of peripheral Treg cells.
The study was approved by Medical Ethics Committee of Jingan District Center Hospital of Shanghai Fudan University Ethics reference number 2016-21.Conflict of Interest StatementThe authors have no conflicts of interest.Funding SourcesThis work was supported by financial grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 81870988 the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning No. 20164Y0238 and the National Key Research and Development Program of China No. 2016YFC0901504.Author ContributionsH.W. and Z.W end. wrote and reviewed the draft. Y.W end. and C.Z end. designed and supervised the study. J.X. J.L. C.Y. J.S. L.W. and S.J. collected the data. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AMWu/Wang/Xi/Liu/Yan/Song/Wang/Jing/ Wang/Zhao Eur Neurol8 DOI 10.1159/000510396References1 Gilhus NE. Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med. 2016 Dec 29 37526 257081. 2 OGrady JG Burroughs A Hardy P Elbourne D Truesdale A. Tacrolimus versus microemulsified ciclosporin in liver transplantation the TMC randomised controlled trial. Lancet end. 2002 Oct 12 3609340 111925. 3 Liu J Farmer JD Jr Lane WS Friedman J Weissman I Schreiber SL.
Cell end. 1991 Aug 23 664 80715. 4 Schreiber SL Crabtree GR. The mechanism of action of cyclosporin A and FK506. Immunol Today. 1992 Apr 134 13642. 5 Ponseti JM Gamez J Azem J Fort JM LpezCano M Vilallonga R et al. Post-thymectomy combined treatment of prednisone and tacrolimus versus prednisone alone for consolidation of complete stable remission in patients with myasthenia gravis a non-randomized non-controlled study. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Jun 236 126978. 6 Yoshikawa H Kiuchi T Saida T Takamori M. Randomised double-blind placebo-controlled study of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2011 Sep 829 9707. 7 Wang L Zhang S Xi J Li W Zhou L Lu J et al. Efficacy and safety of tacrolimus for myasthenia gravis a systematic review and metaanalysis. J Neurol end. 2017 Nov 26411 2191 200.8 Zhou L Liu W Li W Li H Zhang X Shang H et al. Tacrolimus in the treatment of myasthenia gravis in patients with an inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study conducted in China. Ther Adv Neurol Disord. 2017 Sep 109 31525. 9 Jing S Song Y Song J Pang S Quan C Zhou L et al. Responsiveness to low-dose rituximab in refractory generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neuroimmunol. 2017 Oct 15 311 1421. 10 Silvestri NJ Wolfe GI.
J Clin Neuromuscul Dis. 2014 Jun 154 16778. 11 Chen D Hou S Zhao M Sun X Zhang H Yang L. Dose optimization of tacrolimus with therapeutic drug monitoring and CYP3A5 polymorphism in patients with myasthenia gravis. Eur J Neurol. 2018 Aug 258 1049 e80. 12 Nagane Y Suzuki S Suzuki N Utsugisawa K. Factors associated with response to calcineurin inhibitors in myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve. 2010 Feb 412 2128. 13 Yang Y Zhang M Ye Y Ma S Fan L Li Z. High frequencies of circulating Tfh-Th17 cells in myasthenia gravis patients. Neurol Sci. 2017 Sep 389 1599608. 14 Danikowski KM Jayaraman S Prabhakar BS. Regulatory T cells in multiple sclerosis and myasthenia gravis. J Neuroinflammation. 2017 Jun 9 141 117. 15 Lee JU Kim LK Choi JM. Revisiting the concept of targeting NFAT to control T cell immunity and autoimmune diseases. Front Immunol. 2018 9 2747. 16 Zhao CB Zhang X Zhang H Hu XQ Lu JH Lu CZ et al. Clinical efficacy and immunological impact of tacrolimus in Chinese patients with generalized myasthenia gravis. Int Immunopharmacol. 2011 Apr 114 51924. 17 Heidt S Roelen DL Eijsink C Eikmans M van Kooten C Claas FH et al. Calcineurin inhibitors affect B cell antibody responses indirectly by interfering with T cell help. Clin Exp Immunol. 2010 Feb 1592 199207.
Increased CD40LPD-1 follicular helper T cells Tfh as a biomarker for predicting calcineurin inhibitor sensitivity against Tfh-mediated Bcell activation/antibody production after kidney transplantation. Int Immunol. 2018 Jul 24 308 34555. 19 Li X Xiao BG Xi JY Lu CZ Lu JH. Decrease of CD4 CD25 high Foxp3 regulatory T cells and elevation of CD19 BAFF-R B cells and soluble ICAM-1 in myasthenia gravis. Clin Immunol. 2008 Feb 1262 180 8. 20 Yi JS Russo MA Massey JM Juel V HobsonWebb LD Gable K et al. B10 cell frequencies and suppressive capacity in myasthenia gravis are associated with disease severity. Front Neurol. 2017 8 34. 21 Yeh JH Wang SH Chien PJ Shih CM Chiu HC. Changes in serum cytokine levels during plasmapheresis in patients with myasthenia gravis. Eur J Neurol. 2009 Dec 1612 1318 22.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AM. Successful treatment of a 2-year-old girl with intractable myasthenia gravis using tacrolimus. We used tacrolimus to successfully treat a patient with childhood-onset oropharyngeal myasthenia gravis MG.
By contrast tacrolimus at 2 mg/day resulted in complete remission of the MG which made it possible to reduce the dose of prednisolone. This is a rare report of the use of tacrolimus as an effective treatment for patients with intractable childhood-onset MG. 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. We used tacrolimus to successfully treat a patient with childhood-onset oropharyngeal myasthenia gravis MG. A girl 2 years 5 months old with oropharyngeal MG responded partially to treatment including pyridostigmine bromide intravenous immunoglobulin and prednisolone 2 mg/kg/day for 7 weeks but this resulted in worsening of her eye symptoms. By contrast tacrolimus at 2 mg/day resulted in complete remission of the MG which made it possible to reduce the dose of prednisolone. This is a rare report of the use of tacrolimus as an effective treatment for patients with intractable childhood-onset MG. 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Childhood Immunosuppressant Myasthenia gravis Tacrolimus. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG a chronic T-cell-dependent autoimmune disorder of neuromuscular transmission is induced by the production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AchR.
Conventional therapies for MG in children include anticholinesterases immunosuppressive agents such as prednisolone PSL intravenous administration of immunoglobulin and thymectomy. Although the aforementioned treatments improve the prognosis for MG and reduce MG-induced mortality some cases of MG are intractable. It has been reported that intractable adult-onset MG that cannot be0387-7604/ - see front matter 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.braindev.2006.02.001 Corresponding author. Tel. 81 22 717 7287 fax 81 22 717 7290.E-mail address kakisukemui.biglobe.ne.jp Y. Kakisaka.controlled with steroids can be improved by administering tacrolimus FK506 24 a macrolide compound that is derived from Streptomyces tsukubanesis 5. Reports describing the efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with childhood-onset MG are very limited 8. We report here the successful use of tacrolimus to treat a patient with childhood-onset MG.2. Case reportA young girl 2 years 5 months old with no history of disease and no family history of MG developed eyelid ptosis and strabismus of the right eye in December 2004 with no systemic symptoms such as respiratory failure or limb weakness. A diagnosis of ocular MG was made based on neurological examination and the results of the edrophonium test.
Treatment withpyridostigmine bromide was initiated but this was ineffective. Because there had been no improvement in her ocular symptoms she was referred to our hospital on 6 January 2005. She was admitted to our hospital on 27 January 2005 after developing dysphonia and difficulty with swallowing a few days previously these symptoms were worsening at the time of admission see Fig. 1.On admission the patient weighed 15 kg. At the time she was conscious and did not exhibit weakness of the upper limbs or gait disturbance. However clinical examination revealed severe bilateral eyelid ptosis that did not change markedly during the course of the day total paralysis of the bilateral extraocular muscles and facial asymmetry owing to weakness of the lower facial muscles. Bulbar symptoms such as dysphonia and dysphagia were also present. Soon after admission treatment with 15 mg PSL 1 mg/kg/day was initiated. However her symptoms worsened rapidly and on the second day after admission she developed respiratory failure and was sent to an intensive care unit to receive mechanical ventilation. A chest X-ray appeared normal and chest computed tomography revealed no thymoma.
There was no waning of the response to repetitive stimulation of the median nerve at a frequency of 5 Hz.The patient was diagnosed with MG crisis and received ventilation support for 1 week during which immunoglobulin 400 mg/kg was administered intrave-nously for 5 days. This therapy relieved the respiratory failure and the patient was allowed to leave the intensive care unit although the immunoglobulin had no effect on the palsy of the bilateral extraocular muscles. After additional immunoglobulin therapy 400 mg/kg for 5 days the dose of PSL was increased to 30 mg/ day 2 mg/kg. The augmented dose of PSL resulted in incomplete improvement of limited ocular movement for 6 weeks. However by the seventh week ptosis of the right eyelid began to redevelop.After receiving fully informed consent from the patients parents tacrolimus 1 mg/day was administered once daily at night. At the start of tacrolimus treatment the patient was receiving 30 mg/day PSL. The dose of tacrolimus was increased gradually to 2 mg based on a published report 8. Her right-side eyelid ptosis began to improve on the eighth day after starting tacrolimus. The ocular movements also improved gradually.
Subsequently the dose of PSL was decreased gradually from 30 mg/day to 5 mg every other day without any problems. The patient was followed up as an outpatient through December 2005 and did not exhibit any symptoms in response to continued treatment with 2 mg/day tacrolimus. The trough blood concentration of tacrolimus ranged from 1.9 to 3.8 ng/ml during the most recent 6 months. A decrease in the lymphocyte count a known side effect of tacrolimus wascourse and treatment.observed transiently 10 days after starting the tacrolimus. However it was not severe and normalized quickly. Other side effects such as hyperglycemia elevation of serum creatinine and lymphoproliferative disorder were not detected in follow-up as an outpatient. 3 end. Discussion. Several mechanisms by which tacrolimus produces improvement in MG have been suggested. The main mechanism is the inhibition of the activation of helper T cells by reducing the production of interleukin-2 which leads to a decrease in antibody production by B cells 6. Tacrolimus is also known to act on the ryanodine receptor which is located on the surface of the sarcoplasmic reticulum of skeletal muscle and is related to the release of sarcoplasmic Ca2 to potentiate excitationcontraction coupling in skeletal muscle 9.
Moreover a recent study found that tacrolimus enhances the effect of steroids by affecting the immunophilins in steroid receptors and inhibiting steroid exporters 10. Although favorable trough levels are between 5 and 14 ng/ml in kidney transplantation 7 those in MG are between 3 and 5 ng/ml which is generally achieved with 3 mg of tacrolimus per day in an adult. The trough concentration was recently controlled between 1.9 and 3.8 ng/ml in our patient with no MG deterioration. No severe or irreversible side effects were observed only transient lymphocytopenia.In conclusion tacrolimus should be considered as therapy for patients with intractable childhood-onset MG. This is a rare report of the successful treatment of childhood-onset MG using tacrolimus.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Drs. Takashi Ichiyama and Yukihiro Yuhara for their helpful suggestions.References1 Wolfe GI Barohn RJ. Neuromuscular junction disorder of childhood. In Swaiman KF Ashwal F editors. Pediatric neurology. St end. Louis Mosby 1999. p end. 121626 end. 2 Yoshikawa H Mabuchi K Yasukawa Y Takamori M Yamada M. Low-dose tacrolimus for intractable myasthenia gravis. J Clin Neurosci 200296278. 3 Konishi T Yoshiyama Y Takamori M Yagi K Mukai E Saida T et al. Clinical study of FK506 in patients with myasthenia gravis.
4 Evoli A Schino CD Marsili F Punzi C. Successful treatment of myasthenia gravis with tacrolimus. Muscle Nerve 2002251114. 5 Kino T Hatanaka H Miyata S Inamura N Nishiyama M Yajima T et al. FK-506 a novel immunosuppressant isolated from a Streptomyces. 1 end. Fermentation isolation and physico-chemical and biological characteristics. J Antibiot 198740124955. 6 Tocci MJ Matkovich DA Collier KA Kwok P Dumont F Lin S et al. The immunosuppressant FK506 selectively inhibits expression of early T cell activation genes. J Immunol 198914371826. 7 Laskow DA Vincenti F Neylan J Mendez R Matas AJ. An open-label concentration-ranging trial of FK506 in primary kidney transplantation a report of the United States Multicenter FK506 Kidney Transplant Group. Transplantation 1996629005. 8 Shibata M Suzuki Y Takenaka M Yamada T Hattori T Kinpara Y et al. A case of intractable childhood-onset systemic myasthenia gravis that was successfully treated with tacrolimus. Shounika Rinsho in Japanese 200356193942. 9 Takamori M Motomura M Kawaguchi N Nemoto Y Hattori T Yoshikawa H et al. Anti-ryanodine receptor antibodies and FK506 in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 20046218946. 10 Davies TH Ning YM Sanchez ER.
Biochemistry 20054420308. The importance of formal serum iron studies in the assessment of restless legs syndrome. Restless legs syndrome RLS has been associated with a variety of conditions including uremia pregnancy neuropathy malignancy and anemia although a common etiology has not been identified. In 1953 Norlander described several patients with iron deficiency and RLS who responded favorably to blood transfusion or therapy with iron. Ekbomz later observed that roughly 25% of patients with RLS had iron deficiency. In 1993 OKeeffe et al.3 identified iron deficiency with or without anemia in four of 13 patients with RLS and subsequently found a lower mean serum ferritin level in patients with RLS compared with control subj e c t  . Although they suggest a relation between iron status and RLS these studies have reflected relatively small patient populations and have raised questions about the nature of iron abnormalities in RLS. Given these observations we conducted a comparatively large retrospective study to reassess the role of iron status in RLS and to determine the utility of formal iron studies in the evaluation of patients with RLS.
Criteria for inclusion in the study included documented presence of the characteristic lower extremity paresthesias occurring during periods of inactivity and improving with movement and diagnosis of RLS by a neurologist. The data included previously obtained complete blood counts serum iron levels and iron saturation and serum ferritin levels. Anemia was defined as a hemoglobin level of <13.2 g/dL for men and <11.9 g/dL for women. Abnormality of serum iron status was defined as serum iron level of <87 pgdL for men and <72 pg/dL for women iron saturation of <27% or a ferritin level of <22 ndmL for men or 10 ng/mL for women. A total of 113 patients met the inclusion criteria. Of these 72 were women 64% and 41 were men 36%. Patient age ranged from 24 to 90 years with a mean age of 64 -t 14 years. Complete blood counts were performed in 80 patients 17 of whom 21.2% had anemia. Iron studies were performed in 48 patients. Of these 30 patients 62.5% had low serum iron levels and 37 patients 77.1% had low iron saturation. Ferritin levels were measured in 20 patients five of which 25.0% were low and none of which were elevated. A total of 47 patients had both complete blood counts and iron studies. Serum iron levels were low in 30 patients 63.8%.
Iron saturation was low in 37 patients 78.8%. Of these 37 patients only 10 27.0% had anemia. Our data demonstrate abnormally low serum iron 62.5% and iron saturation 77.1% levels in relatively large proportions of patients with RLS. Anemia 21.2% and reduced ferritin 25.0% were found in comparatively smaller proportions. These findings confirm the relation between abnormalities of serum iron status and RLS. Although reduced serum iron and reduced serum iron saturation are characteristic of iron deficiency these findings are not specific for the cndi t ion . Ferritin is considered to be a more reliable indicator of iron defiiency.. These observations raise an important question regarding the basis for the abnormalities of serum iron status we detected. It is possible that the reduced serum iron and iron saturation measurements in RLS are not indicative of simple iron deficiency but reflect some more pervasive and as yet unidentified defect of iron transport or metabolism. Iron is a component of the dopamine D-2 and p-opiate r e c e p t o r    . both of which are RLS treatment targets suggesting a potential mechanism by which a defect in iron metabolism may be involved in the generation of RLS.
Given the evidence that RLS may respond favorably to iron the rap detection of serum iron abnormalities is essential. Additional studies are necessary to characterize fur-. ClinicaVScientific Notes -. The importance of formal serum iron studies in the assessment of restless legs syndromeEdward A. Aul MD Bradley J . Davis MD and Robert L. Rodnitzky MDRestless legs syndrome RLS has been associated with a variety of conditions including uremia pregnancy neuropathy malignancy and anemia although a common etiology has not been identified. In 1953 Norlander described several patients with iron deficiency and RLS who responded favorably to blood transfusion or therapy with iron. Ekbomz later observed that roughly 25% of patients with RLS had iron deficiency. In 1993 OKeeffe et al.3 identified iron deficiency with or without anemia in four of 13 patients with RLS and subsequently found a lower mean serum ferritin level in patients with RLS compared with control subj e c t  . Although they suggest a relation between iron status and RLS these studies have reflected relatively small patient populations and have raised questions about the nature of iron abnormalities in RLS.
Medical records for all patients diagnosed with RLS at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics from January 1984 through March 1996 were reviewed. Criteria for inclusion in the study included documented presence of the characteristic lower extremity paresthesias occurring during periods of inactivity and improving with movement and diagnosis of RLS by a neurologist. The data included previously obtained complete blood counts serum iron levels and iron saturation and serum ferritin levels. Anemia was defined as a hemoglobin level of <13.2 g/dL for men and <11.9 g/dL for women. Abnormality of serum iron status was defined as serum iron level of <87 pgdL for men and <72 pg/dL for women iron saturation of <27% or a ferritin level of <22 ndmL for men or 10 ng/mL for women. A total of 113 patients met the inclusion criteria. Of these 72 were women 64% and 41 were men 36%. Patient age ranged from 24 to 90 years with a mean age of 64 -t 14 years. Complete blood counts were performed in 80 patients 17 of whom 21.2% had anemia. Iron studies were performed in 48 patients. Of these 30 patients 62.5% had low serum iron levels and 37 patients 77.1% had low iron saturation. Ferritin levels were measured in 20 patients five of which 25.0% were low and none of which were elevated.
Serum iron levels were low in 30 patients 63.8%. Of these 30 patients only 10 33.3% had anemia. Iron saturation was low in 37 patients 78.8%. Of these 37 patients only 10 27.0% had anemia. Our data demonstrate abnormally low serum iron 62.5% and iron saturation 77.1% levels in relatively large proportions of patients with RLS. Anemia 21.2% and reduced ferritin 25.0% were found in comparatively smaller proportions. These findings confirm the relation between abnormalities of serum iron status and RLS. Although reduced serum iron and reduced serum iron saturation are characteristic of iron deficiency these findings are not specific for the cndi t ion . Ferritin is considered to be a more reliable indicator of iron defiiency.. These observations raise an important question regarding the basis for the abnormalities of serum iron status we detected. It is possible that the reduced serum iron and iron saturation measurements in RLS are not indicative of simple iron deficiency but reflect some more pervasive and as yet unidentified defect of iron transport or metabolism. Iron is a component of the dopamine D-2 and p-opiate r e c e p t o r    .
Because routine blood counts and ferritin levels are usually normal even in the face of documented serum iron abnormalities formal serum iron studies must be performed to identify accurately abnormalities of iron status. Given the evidence that RLS may respond favorably to iron the rap detection of serum iron abnormalities is essential. Additional studies are necessary to characterize fur-912 NEUROLOGY 51 September 1998Methods.Results.Discussion.ther the iron defect in RLS and to assess the clinical response to therapy with iron. From the Department of Neurology University of Iowa Hospitals  Clinics Iowa City IA. Received September 8 1997. Accepted in final form May 9 1998. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Edward A end. Aul Department of Neurology University of Iowa Hospitals  Clinics 2 Roy Carver Pavilion 200 Hawkins Drive Iowa City IA 52242.Copyright 0 1998 by the American Academy of Neurology. Myasthenic hand. end. J.C end. Janssen MRCPUK A.J. Larner MD MRCPUK. J end. Harris G.L. Sheean FRACP and M.N.
Clinically he had a partial right ptosis and left hypertropia but with no evidence of fatigability. There was alsowasting and weakness MRC grade 4/51 of the left biceps and triceps but no other neurologic signs. Family history was negative for neurologic disease.Nerve conduction studies and electromyography EMG suggested a left C6-C7 radiculopathy and MRI showed degenerative changes in the cervical spine from C3 to C7. Repetitive nerve stimulation left trapezius 3 Hz train of nine stimuli was normal. Single-fiber EMG of the left orbicularis oculi showed subjectively increased jitter in all fiber pairs studied 10 two pairs were quantified showing mean consecutive differences of time intervals of 135 and 165 microseconds criteria for abnormal jitter were therefore satisfied.2 A diagnosis of ocular myasthenia with concurrent cervical radiculopathy was made. Treatment with pyridostigmine was commenced with resolution of the diplopia. Acetylcholine receptor autoantibody AChRAb was negative as was striated muscle autoantibody thoracic MRI showed no thymic enlargement.Six months later the patient complained of gradually increasing difficulty in using his right dominant hand particularly when doing up buttons writing and using cutlery.
The left hand was unaffected and there were no new ocular or bulbar symptoms. On examination there was clawing of the right hand with extremely weak finger extension finger abduction and thlimb abduction MRC grade l/5 but with reasonable finger flexion and wrist extension 4-/5. The left-arm wasting and weakness were unchanged and there was no other weakness reflexes were presemed and sensation was intact.An MRI of brain showed no focal lesion and repeat MRI of the cervical cord was unchanged. EMG of the right extensor indicis and first dorsal interosseous showed a markedly reduced interference pattern in proportion to the clinical weakness neurogenic changes were not observed excluding C8-TI radiculopathy. Conduction block was excluded by nerve conduction studies of the right median nerve at the wrist elbow and above the elbow distal upper arm and of the ulnar nerve at the wrist below the elbow above the elbow axilla and Erbs point. F waves were performed in both nerves with 100% persistence. Repetitive ulnar nerve stimulation trains of nine stimuli showed a 40% decrement in compound muscle action potential in the right abductor digiti minimi with 3-Hz stimulation and 100% decrement with 20-Hz stimulation.
A subsequent intravenous edrophonium test 10 mg was unequivocally positive producing marked improvement in right hand strength but having no effect on left upper limb weakness. Assay for AChRAb remained negative. A diagnosis of generalized myasthenia was made.The patient was treated with a gradually increasing dose of prednisolone to a maximum of 40 mg alt diem with subsequent improvement in hand muscle strength after 2 months finger extension and abduction were graded at 4-/5 and at 3 months 415. This improvement has been maintained during a further 6 months despite gradual reduction of the prednisolone dose to 5 mg alt diem.Nations et a1. retrospectively reviewed 234 patients with myasthenia and found that 3% had distal myasthenia defined as distal extremity weakness exceeding proximal weakness by at least one MRC grade. Hand weakness particularly involved the finger extensors and was the sole presenting feature in two patients and developed later in three others l month to 43 years after the initial diagnosis of myasthenia. These patients age range 14 to 43 all had raised AChRAb levels and ocular or bulbar weakness in addition to hand weakness. No patient had a thymoma and six improved with immunosuppression.
Distal symmetric lower limb myasthenic weakness in the absence of oculobulbar signs has been decribed.We report this patient to emphasize that distal weakness in myasthenia may be strikingly asymmetric in its distributionP Although any limb or truncal muscle may be weak in myasthenia this pattern of disease is highly unusual and sits somewhat uneasily in the classification of myasthenia proposed by Osserman and Genkins it would presumably be categorized in Group 2A mild generalized disease desp. ite its focal nature. The reasons for the selectivity of muscle involvement remain unknown but contrary to the findings of Nations et it is clear from our patient that distal myasthenia can occur in the older age groupSeptember 1998 NEUROLOGY 51 913DOI 10.1212/WNL.51.3.912-a 199851912-913 NeurologyRobert A. Hauser Ali R.
ull.htmlotherarticles This article has been cited by 2 HighWire-hosted articlesPermissions  Licensinghttp//www.neurology.org/misc/about.xhtmlpermissions entirety can be found online at Information about reproducing this article in parts figurestables or in itsReprintshttp//www.neurology.org/misc/addir.xhtmlreprintsus Information about ordering reprints can be found online1526-632X. is now a weekly with 48 issues per year. Copyright . All rights reserved. Print ISSN 0028-3878. Online ISSN is the official journal of the American Academy of Neurology. Published continuously since 1951 itNeurology. Early Aggressive Treatment Strategy against Myasthenia Gravis. Background/Aims In treating myasthenia gravis MG our aims were to achieve early minimal manifestations MM by performing early aggressive therapy EAT using plasmapheresis and high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone and then to maintain the status with low-dose oral corticosteroids EAT strategy. We examined the merits of the EAT strategy. Methods We retrospectively analyzed long-term effects of the EAT strategy duration of therapy 4.1 years for 49 de novo MG patients and compared the effects to those of high-dose oral prednisolone therapy for 22 patients.
The patients who achieved MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day were more frequent in the EAT group at both 1 year 57.1 vs. 4.5% and final observation 77.6 vs. 27.3% end. Both new-onset diabetes and patients who had complained of moon face were less frequent in the EAT group. However in the EAT group due to a temporary inability to maintain MM additional short-term Received September 9 2010 Accepted November 2 2010 Published online November 30 2010 K. Utsugisawa Department of Neurology Hanamaki General Hospital  4-28 Kajoh-chou Hanamaki 025-0075 Japan Tel. 81 198 23 3311 Fax 81 198 24 8163 E-Mail kutsugi  s4.dion.ne.jp  2010 S. Karger AG Basel 00143022/11/0651001638.00/0 Accessible online at www.karger.com/ene D ow nl oa de d by  U C S F L ib ra ry  C K M 16 9. 23 0 end. 24 3 end. 25 2 4/ 9/ 20 15 1 0 03 4 0 A M. Fax 41 61 306 12 34 E-Mail kargerkarger.ch www.karger.comIntroductionMyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease generally mediated by antibodies Ab against the acetylcholine receptors AChR in skeletal muscle impairing neuromuscular transmission 1 . Oral corticosteroids represent the first-line agent and are still the most common agent for long-term immunosuppressive treatment of MG 2 . Oral prednisolone is often administered at high doses 0.751.0 mg/kg/day 2 .
However a moderate dose approximately 20 mg/day of prednisolone must often be given chronically to avoid worsening disease symptoms 24 .Because of the spread of immune treatment based around oral corticosteroids MG has gone from being a severe disease with a high mortality rate to a disease with a nonlethal course for many MG patients 3 . However many patients need to continue taking oral corticoste-K. Utsugisawa Department of Neurology Hanamaki General Hospital  4-28 Kajoh-chou Hanamaki 025-0075 Japan Tel. 81 198 23 3311 Fax 81 198 24 8163 E-Mail kutsugi    s4.dion.ne.jp  2010 S. Karger AG Basel 00143022/11/0651001638.00/0 Accessible online at www.karger.com/eneD ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AMAggressive Therapy in MG Eur Neurol 2011651622 17roids for many years and are thus burdened with associated side effects 5 6  as the rate of patients achieving full remission free from immune treatment is not high in MG 7 8 .
Neurologists must therefore treat elderly MG patients much more frequently today than previously 11 . Older patients are vulnerable to complications from high-dose or long-term oral corticosteroid therapy 11 . The therapeutic situation at present differs from that seen in the past 11 . This situation motivated us to plan a therapeutic strategy without highdose oral corticosteroids.In order to veer away from high-dose oral corticosteroids in the treatment of de novo patients or patients with uncontrolled symptoms we have been making attempts to achieve early improvement by performing an aggressive therapy using combined treatment with plasmapheresis and high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone HMP and then to maintain an improved clinical status using low-dose oral corticostero. ids 15 16 the early aggressive therapy EAT strategy. Plasmapheresis has usually been considered for short-term treatment of MG 2 and cumulative long-term benefits of repeated plasmapheresis have failed to be demonstrated 17  however combined treatment with plasmapheresis and HMP immediately after plasmapheresis plasmapheresisHMP may have longer-term effects than plasmapheresis alone or HMP alone 15 16 .
egard to de novo patients and patients with uncontrolled symptoms we aimed at early improvement with EAT using plasmapheresisHMP to avoid high-dose oral corticosteroids.An EAT set consisted of 1 plasmapheresis followed by HMP which was performed by serial intravenous injection of 1.0 g methylprednisolone/100 ml saline immediately after plasmapheresis and on the morning of the subsequent 2 days 15 16 .Patients were admitted to our hospitals for EAT and the EAT set was administered and repeated du. ring the hospitalization to achieve minimal manifestations MM as defined by the MG Foundation of America MGFA postintervention status classification 18 . Plasmapheresis was performed using the immunoadsorption method for AChR-Ab-positive patients 19 20 or using the plasma-exchange method for AChR-Ab-negative patients. The immunoadsorption method employed a TR-350 adsorption column Asahi Medical Tokyo Japan in which tryptophanlinked affinity immunoadsorbent material semiselectively removes AChR-Ab 19 20 . EAT during hospitalization could also consist of oral prednisolone not exceeding 20 mg/day in addition to HMP to reduce the degree of the initial worsening of the disease by HMP.
Oral immunosuppressive agents were provided basically to maintain an improved clinical status and comprised oral prednisolone at   10 mg/day and if insufficient calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine or tacrolimus. If symptoms deteriorated again or prednisolone 1 10 mg/ day was needed patients were recommended to be hospitalized and undergo EAT again. Pyridostigmine bromide 60 or 120 mg/ day was administered as needed to maintain MM.High-Dose Oral Prednisolone Therapy High-dose oral prednisolone therapy was performed in a conventional way as follows oral prednisolone was started with a lower-dose 1020 mg/day and gradually increased by 510 mg/day every week until symptoms adequately improved or up to a maximum dose of 1.0 mg/kg/day. The dose was maintained over 12 months until maximum improvement was reached then tapered every month by   20% of the previous daily dose when MM was achieved and maintained for 1 month when diabetes was insufficiently controlled or when patients requested a dose reduction due to other complications of prednisolone which included anxiety depression insomnia and moon face. When the prednisolone dose could not be successfully reduced to   20 mg/day calcineurin inhibitors were added.
Among 410 de novo MG patients 281 showed a generalized form and were treated with EAT n  76 oral prednisolone therapy with or without other oral immunosuppressive agents n  133 oral immunosuppressive agent without oral corticosteroids n  12 oral cholinesterase inhibitors only n  53 or uncertain methods n  7. Among 133 patients with oral prednisolone therapy high-dose prednisolone therapy was performed for 81 patients and low- or moderate-dose prednisolone therapy 520 mg/day was provided for 52 patients  table1 .D ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AMNagane /Suzuki /Suzuki /Utsugisawa Eur Neurol 201165162218Patients treated with EAT n  76 or with high-dose oral prednisolone therapy n  81 were considered for inclusion in a comparative study to determine the advantages and disadvantages of the EAT strategy. Inclusion criteria were a receiving therapy for 6 1 year b continuing follow-up at our institutes and c complete medical records with clinical severity scores.
Exclusion criteria for patients with EAT were d receiving 6 20 mg/day of prednisolone the criterion to exclude cases treated with oral corticosteroids against uncontrolled symptoms e an insufficient peak-dose of oral prednisolone for significant reduction in clinical severity score  1 3 points due to emerging side effects for patients with high-dose prednisolone therapy and f receiving plasmapheresis high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin or HMP despite a noncrisis situation.Among the patients tre. ated with EAT n  76 27 patients were excluded from analysis due to a receiving treatment for  1 year n  7 b not being under follow-up by our institutes n  12 c incomplete medical records n  4 or d receiving oral prednisolone 6 20 mg/day during hospitalization n  4. Among patients treated with high-dose oral prednisolone therapy n  81 59 patients were excluded from analysis due to b not being under follow-up by our institutes n  18 c incomplete medical records n  25 or e an insufficient peak-dose of oral prednisolone range 2530 mg n  12.
In both groups oral prednisolone was provided basically on a daily schedule. Background data for the 2 groups are shown in table1 . The MGFA clinical classification 18 shown corresponds to the worst condition in each patient.Diagnosis of MG was based on clinical findings fluctuating muscle weakness with easy fatigability and recovery of strength after rest with reductions in symptoms after intravenous administration of anticholinesterase decremental muscular response to a train of low-frequency repetitive nerve stimuli or presence of AChR-Ab. AChR-Ab-negative cases comprised 18 of 49 patients receiving EAT and 4 of 22 patients receiving high-dose oral prednisolone therapy. No muscle-specific tyrosine kinase Ab-positive patients were identified among the present 22 AChR-Ab-negative cases.Clinical Parameters Clinical severity scores at the worst early-stage condition at 1 year after starting treatment and at the final observation were analyzed. Scores were determined according to the QMG score 18 or for determinations before 2000 according to QMGS score 21 4 of 49 patients with EAT and 7 of 22 patients with high-dose prednisolone therapy.
Clinical classification according to MGFA 18 was also determined based on the worst condition of each patient. Serum titers of AChR-Ab were estimated by radioimmunoassay using 125 I- - bungarotoxin and levels 1 0.5 n M were regarded as positive.In MG the rate of patients achieving remission with freedom from treatment is only 720% 7 8  and has not improved greatly compared with the 1940s 8  therefore large differences were not expected regardless of therapy. Complete stable remission CSR according to the MGFA postintervention status classification 18 is probably inappropriate as a practical landmark to compare the effects of treatments. We therefore set a practical goal of achieving MM or a better status with prednisolone   5 mg/day MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day given that complications of long-term prednisolone emerge at 7.510 mg/day 9 10 .
ical variables. Changes in the number of plasmapheresisHMP therapies needed each year were evaluated using the Wilcoxon signed-ranks test.Besides therapeutic strategy other clinical factors might also have contributed to the achievement of MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day or CSR therefore examination was performed using logistic regression analysis. Age age at onset time since onset duration of untreated disease duration of therapy AChR-Abpositivity thymectomy presence of thymoma early-onset MG at  50 years old 11  late-onset MG at 6 50 years old 11  clinical severity MGFA clinical classification 18 and clinical severity scores 18 21  at both worst condition and 1 year into therapy and use of calcineurin inhibitors were initially examined using univariate analysis. Factors displaying a value of p  0.05 and types of therapeutic strategy were then entered into a multivariate logistic regression analysis to identify independent factors associated with the achievement of MM with prednisolone   5 mg/ day or CSR.Values of p  0.05 were considered statistically significant. All continuous data are expressed as means 8 SD. Statistical analysis was performed using StatView 5.0 statistical software SAS Institute Cary N.C. USA.Results.
Neither the proportions of MGFA clinical classification subgroups 18  table 1  nor maximum clinical severity scores 18 21  table2  at the worst condition for each patient differed between the EAT and high-dose predniso-D ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AMAggressive Therapy in MG Eur Neurol 2011651622 19lone therapy groups. At 1 year into therapy a greater reduction in clinical severity scores was seen in the EAT group compared with the high-dose prednisolone group 10.1 8 5.1 vs. 6.4 8 6.1 whereas no significant difference in overall point reduction was seen between the groups at the final observation  table2 . The mean duration of therapy was 4.1 years range 116 for the EAT group and 9.1 years range 219 for the high-dose prednisolone group.Naturally the dose of oral prednisolone both at maximum and at 1 year was much higher in the high-dose prednisolone group  table2 . Furthermore the prednisolone dose at the final observation was higher in the highdose prednisolone group despite longer duration of therapy  table2 .After discharge from the initial hospitalization temporary inability to maintain MM was not rare during the 1st year 44.9% 22/49 in the EAT group.
During the 2nd year 45.5% of patients 20/44 required hospitalization to receive EAT mean number of admissions 0.7 range 02 mean duration of hospitalization 7.1 days. During the 3rd year 27.6% of patients 8/29 required hospitalization mean number of admissions 0.4 range 02 mean duration of hospitalization 6.8 days. The mean number of plasmapheresisHMP treatments required was 4.1 range 114 during the 1st year decreasing to 1.6 range 07 for the 2nd year p  0.0001 Wilcoxon signed-ranks test compared with 1st year and decreasing further to 0.7 range 06 for the 3rd year p  0.01 Wilcoxon signed-ranks test compared with the 2nd year in the EAT group  table2 . Among the highdose prednisolone group plasmapheresis was performed in a setting of myasthenic crisis for only 4 patients range 26 times during the 1st year and was not performed thereafter  table2 . The frequency of treatment with calcineurin inhibitors taken together with oral prednisolone did not differ between groups  table2 . p < 0.001  2 test between the EAT group and high-dose prednisolone group.
CNI  Calcineurin inhibitors CSR  complete stable remission 18 MM  minimal manifestations 18 PR  pharmacological remission 18.D ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AMNagane /Suzuki /Suzuki /Utsugisawa Eur Neurol 201165162220The frequency of patients who achieved MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day was much higher in the EAT group compared with the high-dose prednisolone group at both 1 year and final observation 57.1 vs. 4.5% at 1 year 77.6 vs. 27.3% at final observation table2 .The total frequency of patients who achieved MM or better status was also higher in the EAT group  table2 .The frequency of patients who achieved CSR at final observation was only 10.2% in the EAT group and 13.6% in the high-dose prednisolone group  table 2  with no significant difference apparent between groups.
nhibitors within 1 year OR 4.50 95% CI 1.0718.94 p  0.04 as independent clinical factors associated with achievement of MM using prednisolone   5 mg/day at 1 year as well as high-dose oral prednisolone therapy OR 0.08 95% CI 0.020.50 p  0.006 and EAT OR 26.02 95% CI 2.69252.20 p  0.005.MM with Prednisolone   5 mg/day at Final Observation No clinical factor other than types of therapeutic strategy high-dose oral prednisolone therapy OR 0.16 95% CI 0.050.50 p  0.002 or EAT OR 8.87 95% CI 2.70 29.0. 8 p  0.0003 showed a significant association with achievement of MM using prednisolone   5 mg/day at the final observation.CSR at Final Observation Only duration of therapy OR 1.16 95% CI 1.001.40 p  0.04 and clinical severity scores at 1 year OR 0.65 95% CI 0.450.94 p  0.03 showed significant associations with achievement of CSR. Types of therapeutic strategy did not show significant associations with achievement of CSR high-dose oral prednisolone therapy p  0.77 EAT p  0.70.Side Effects Although existing diabetes almost invariably showed deterioration among patients in both groups new-onsetdiabetes was more frequent in the high-dose prednisolone group  table 2 . Patients who had complained of moon face were much more frequent in the high-dose prednisolone group  table2 .
Bone density and markers for atherosclerosis such as ankle-brachial pressure index and pulse-wave velocity were not systematically examined for all patients. We did not encounter any crisis or serious initial worsening of the disease following induction of EAT probably because HMP was administered after removal of Ab by plasmapheresis and because oral prednisolone   20 mg/day was provided before EAT if a crisis or serious worsening was seen.DiscussionThis retrospective study analyzed the long-term effects of the EAT strategy on MG patients. We compared the effects of the EAT strategy to those of high-dose oral prednisolone therapy to clarify the advantages and disadvantages of EAT for MG. Given that plasmapheresisHMP was repeated to achieve MM the EAT group naturally achieved marked early improvement with a much lower dose of oral prednisolone 10.9 mg/day at maximum 6.8 mg/day at 1 year compared to the highdose prednisolone group. Although QMG 18 and QMGS scores 21 were intermingled in clinical severity scores making the results somewhat blurred the frequency of patients who achieved MM with prednisolone   5 mg/ day was also much higher in the EAT group at 1 year 57.1 vs. 4.5% end.
Early improvement with reduced frequency of complications from steroids thus represent the primary advantages of the EAT strategy. If oral prednisolone was provided on an alternate-day schedule the frequency of these adverse effects might be lower in both groups than the present results.MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day at the final observation was also much more frequent in the EAT group 77.6 vs. 27.3% end. This was not simply due to a lower prednisolone dose but probably also due to better improvement of disease in the EAT group as MM in total was more frequent in the EAT group and the frequency of MM with prednisolone 1 5 mg/day not shown did not differ between groups. Marked early improvement might lead to better long-term results in the EAT group and MG pathogenesis may be well targeted by immunotherapy in the early stages of disease 22 .D ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AMAggressive Therapy in MG Eur Neurol 2011651622 21On the other hand a temporary inability to maintain MM was not rare in the EAT group as oral prednisolone was provided at a low dose   10 mg/day for outpatients.
The time labor and cost required are thus evident disadvantages of the EAT strategy. However these issues may be solved over the course of years since the number of plasmapheresisHMP treatments required decreased each year. An additional modest prednisolone dose above 10 mg/day for outpatients may also reduce the frequency of short-term hospitalizations. We did not encounter serious adverse events such as severe hypotension and venous thrombosis during plasmapheresis for these patients. The frequency of such events has been markedly decreased today due to a number of improvements in plasmapheresis equipment use of nafamostat mesilate instead of heparin as an anticoagulant avoidance of overuse of anticholinesterase and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and removal of the blood-access catheter immediately after each treatment. Whether these disadvantages can be balanced with the advantages of the EAT strategy may be considered based on the level of satisfaction of the patient in view of the ability of physicians and institutes and depending on the health insurance system.Achievement of CSR was exclusively associated with duration of therapy and less severe disease at 1 year into therapy was not influenced by the therapy type and was infrequent in both groups.
In MG the CSR rate is low 720% and only modestly better in early-onset MG 7 8  it has not been substantially improved since the 1940s 8 . Rather than the achievement of CSR a return to a normal lifestyle without complications resulting from oral pharmacotherapy would be appropriate as a goal of MG therapy at least in the early stages of therapy. As the dose of prednisolone that can be administered long-term while remaining free from complications is approximately   5 mg/day 5 9 10  we propose achieving MM or better status with prednisolone   5 mg/day as a practical goal of MG therapy.Interestingly higher age at onset and early use of calcineurin inhibitors were identified as factors significantly contributing to the achievement of MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day at 1 year. Consistently better responses to immunotherapy in late-onset MG 5 11 23 and advantages of early use of calcineurin inhibitors 22 have been reported previously.Although the present results include many biases due to the retrospective and unblinded nature of the study multivariate analysis demonstrated that choosing EAT was the most significant factor contributing to the achievement of MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day. Of course we do not necessarily advocate the EAT strategy for all types of MG.
The EAT strategy need not necessarily consist of plasmapheresisHMP. Intravenous immunoglobulin may be a promising alternative arm to plasmapheresis 24  and even HMP alone without plasmapheresis may act as an efficient arm. With regard to these issues prospective clinical trials comparing new-onset MG patients treated with various early-stage treatments are required to identify which treatments can act as efficient arms for EAT and yield better long-term results.In conclusion our analysis demonstrated that the EAT strategy for MG has advantages of marked early improvement with much lower dose of oral prednisolone and the key disadvantages of the time- and labor-intensive nature of treatment as well as the high cost. may be solved in the future. The EAT strategy will represent a choice for MG patients to avoid high-dose oral steroid therapy. Although limitations exist in the retrospective and unblinded design the present study provides information useful for planning therapeutic strategies against MG.Disclosure StatementAll authors state they have no conflict of interest and no financial relationships to disclose.References 1 Patrick J Lindstrom J Autoimmune response to acetylcholine receptor.
Lancet Neurol 2009 8 475490. 3 Gilhus NE Autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Expert Rev Neurother 2009 9 351358. 4 Keesey JC Clinical evaluation and management of myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2004 29 484505. 5 Pascuzzi RM Coslett HB Johns TR Longterm corticosteroid treatment of myasthenia gravis report of 116 patients. Ann Neurol 1984 15 291298.D ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AMNagane /Suzuki /Suzuki /Utsugisawa Eur Neurol 2011651622226 Muscle Study Group A trial of mycophenolate mofetil with prednisone as initial immunotherapy in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2008 71 394399. 7 Sanders DB Evoli A Immunosuppressive therapies in myasthenia gravis. Autoimmunity 2010 43 428435. 8 Grob D Brunner N Namba T Pagala M Lifetime course of myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2008 37 141149. 9 Truhan AP Ahmed AR Corticosteroids a review with emphasis on complications of prolonged systemic therapy. Ann Allergy 1989 62 375391. 10 Brown ES Suppes T Mood symptoms during corticosteroid therapy a review. Harvard Rev Psychiatry 1998 5 239246. 11 Aarli JA Myasthenia gravis in the elderly is it different Ann NY Acad Sci 2008 1132 238243.
J Am Geriatr 2000 48 14421448. 13 Vincent A Clover L Buckley C Grimley EJ Rothwell PM Evidence of underdiagnosis of myasthenia gravis in older people. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2003 74 11051108. 14 Somnier FE Increasing incidence of late-onset anti-AChR antibody-seropositive myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2005 65 928930. 15 Munakata R Utsugisawa K Nagane Y Yamagata M Oikawa M Obara D Tohgi H The effect of combined therapy with immunoadsorption and high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone on myasthenia gravis. Eur Neurol 2002 48 115117. 16 Nagane Y Utsugisawa K Obara D Kondoh R Terayama Y Efficacy of low-dose FK506 in the treatment of myasthenia gravis  a randomized pilot study. Eur Neurol 2005 53 146150. 17 Newsom-Davis J Wilson SG Vincent A Ward CD Long-term effects of repeated plasma exchange in myasthenia gravis. Lancet 1979 1464468. 18 Jaretzki A 3rd Barohn RJ Ernstoff RM et al Myasthenia gravis recommendation for clinical research standards. Task Force of the Medical Scientific Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America.
Cleveland ISAO Press 1983 pp 719722.20 Shibuya N Sato T Osame M Takegami T Doi S Kawanami S Immunoadsorption therapy for myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1994 57 578581. 21 Tindall RSA Rollins JA Phillips JT Greenlee RG Wells L Belendiuk G Preliminary results of a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial of cyclosporine in myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 1987 316 719 724. 22 Nagane Y Suzuki S Suzuki N Utsugisawa K Factors associated with response to calcineurin inhibitors in myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2010 41 212218. 23 Slesak G Melms A Gerneth F Sommer N Weissert R Dichgans J Late-onset myasthenia gravis. Follow-up of 113 patients diagnosed after age 60. Ann NY Acad Sci 1998 841 777780. 24 Zinman L Ng E Bril V IV immunoglobulin in patients with myasthenia gravis a randomized controlled trial. Neurology 2007 68 837841.D ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AM. International consensus guidance for management of myasthenia gravis. Objective To develop formal consensus-based guidance for the management of myasthenia gravis MG. Methods In October 2013 theMyasthenia Gravis Foundation of America appointed a Task Force to develop treatment guidance for MG and a panel of 15 international experts was convened.
Definitions were developed for goals of treatment minimal manifestations remission ocular MG impending crisis crisis and refractory MG. An in-person panel meeting then determined 7 treatment topics to be addressed. Initial guidance statements were developed from literature summaries. Three rounds of anonymous e-mail votes were used to attain consensus on guidance statements modified on the basis of panel input. Results Guidance statements were developed for symptomatic and immunosuppressive treatments IV immunoglobulin and plasma exchange management of impending and manifest myasthenic crisis thymectomy juvenile MG MG associated with antibodies to muscle-specific tyrosine kinase and MG in pregnancy. Conclusion This is an international formal consensus of MG experts intended to be a guide for clinicians caring for patients with MG worldwide.
CT 5 randomized controlled trial. Acquired myasthenia gravis MG is a disorder of neuromuscular transmission resulting from binding of autoantibodies to components of the neuromuscular junction most commonly the acetylcholine receptor AChR. The incidence ranges from 0.3 to 2.8 per 100000 and it is estimated to affect more than 700000 people worldwide. The increasing use of immunomodulating therapies has been a major factor in improving the prognosis for patients with MG in recent years. The various treatment options must be weighed in the context of individual patient factors. Why do we need MG guidance treatment statements Although there is widespread agreement on the use of many treatments for MG there is no internationally accepted standard of care. Because MG is heterogeneous no one These authors contributed equally to this work.
Barcelona CIBERER U762 I.I. Barcelona Spain Departments of Pediatrics and Neurology N.K. Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine Chicago IL Neurologische Klinik A.M. Universittsklinikum Erlangen Hertie Institute for Clinical Research A.M. University of Tbingen Germany Department of Neurological Therapeutics H.M. Graduate School of Medical Sciences Kyushu University Fukuoka Japan Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences M.N. Western University London Canada Department of Clinical Neurology . J.P. John Radcliffe Hospital Oxford University Hospitals Trust Oxford UK Department of Neurology D.P.R. University of California Davis CA Department of Neurology J.V. Leiden University Medical Centre Leiden the Netherlands and Department of Neurology Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center/Harvard Medical School P.N. Boston MA. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures. Funding information and disclosures deemed relevant by the authors if any are provided at the end of the article. The Article Processing Charge was paid by the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited.
2016 American Academy of Neurology 1 a 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited. Published Ahead of Print on June 29 2016 as 10.1212/WNL.0000000000002790. Donald B end. Sanders MD Gil I. Wolfe MD Michael Benatar MDPhD Amelia Evoli MD Nils E. Gilhus MD Isabel Illa MD Nancy Kuntz MD Janice M. Massey MD Arthur Melms MD Hiroyuki Murai MD Michael Nicolle MD Jacqueline Palace BMDM David P. Richman MD Jan Verschuuren MD Pushpa NarayanaswamiMBBS DMCorrespondence to Dr. Sanders donald.sandersduke.eduEditorial page 350Supplemental data at Neurology.orgObjective To develop formal consensus-based guidance for the management of myasthenia gravis MG.Methods In October 2013 theMyasthenia Gravis Foundation of America appointed a Task Force to develop treatment guidance for MG and a panel of 15 international experts was convened. The RAND/UCLA appropriateness methodology was used to develop consensus guidance statements. Definitions were developed for goals of treatment minimal manifestations remission ocular MG impending crisis crisis and refractory MG. An in-person panel meeting then determined 7 treatment topics to be addressed. Initial guidance statements were developed from literature summaries.
be a guide for clinicians caring for patients with MG worldwide. Neurology 20168717. GLOSSARY end. AChR 5 acetylcholine receptor ChEI 5 cholinesterase inhibitor CTCAE 5 Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events FDA 5 Food and Drug Administration IS 5 immunosuppressive IVIg 5 IV immunoglobulin JMG 5 juvenile myasthenia gravis MG 5 myasthenia gravis MGFA 5 Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MMS 5 minimal manifestation status MuSK 5 muscle-specific tyrosine kinase PIS 5 Post-Intervention Status PLEX 5 plasma exchange RAM 5 RAND/ UCLA Appropriateness Method RCT 5 randomized controlled t. rial.Acquired myasthenia gravis MG is a disorder of neuromuscular transmission resulting from binding of autoantibodies to components of the neuromuscular junction most commonly the acetylcholine receptor AChR.
ted standard of care. Because MG is heterogeneous no oneThese authors contributed equally to this work. From the Department of Neurology D.B.S. J.M.M. Duke University Medical Center Durham NC Department of Neurology G.I.W. University at Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences State University of New York Department of Neurology M.B. University of Miami Miller School of Medicine FL Department of Neurology A.E. Catholic University Rome Italy Department of Clinical Medicine N.E.G. University of Bergen Norway Department of Neurology I.I. Hospital Santa Creu i Sant Pau Universitat Autnoma de. Barcelona CIBERER U762 I.I. Barcelona Spain Departments of Pediatrics and Neurology N.K. Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine Chicago IL Neurologische Klinik A.M. Universittsklinikum Erlangen Hertie Institute for Clinical Research A.M. University of Tbingen Germany Department of Neurological Therapeutics H.M. Graduate School of Medical Sciences Kyushu University Fukuoka Japan Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences M.N. Western University London Canada Department of Clinical Neurology .
Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures. Funding information and disclosures deemed relevant by the authors if any are provided at the end of the article. The Article Processing Charge was paid by the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially. 2016 American Academy of Neurology 1 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.treatment approach is best for all patients. Few physicians treat enough patients with MG to be comfortable with all available treatments. Given its heterogeneity the few randomized controlled trials RCTs in MG have limited generalizability while uncontrolled trials are limited by potential bias. Hence an effort to develop consensus among international experts was undertaken to guide clinicians worldwide on the multifaceted approach to managing MG.
In October 2013 a Task Force of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA convened a panel of 15 international experts in MG to develop treatment guidance statements based on formalized consensus. The panel was chosen to represent the breadth of knowledge and experience and a wide variety of opinions from MG experts internationally.Development of preliminary definitions.The panel initially voted on definitions that formed the foundation for subsequent guidance treatment statements goals of treatment remission ocular MG impending and manifest myasthenic crises and refractory MG.The Task Force co-chairs D.B.S. G.I.W. drafted initial definitions based on available literature.3 These were sen. t by e-mail to the panelists who were asked to vote yes or no on each and to provide modifications if they did not agree. Panelists were instructed not to discuss the definitions among themselves and to send their votes only to the facilitator P.N. A simple consensus was used 80% of panelists voting yes.Definitions not achieving consensus were modified based on the panelists suggestions and the modified definitions and discussions were shared with the panel for subsequent voting rounds.Development of guidance treatment statements. The following were agreed upon a priori1.
2 end. Clinical examination is assumed to have been performed by physicians skilled in the evaluation of neuromuscular disease. 3 end. The MGFA Clinical Classification including remission refers to the state of the patient at the time of evaluation.A formal systematic review of the literature was not performed. The Task Force co-chairs and facilitator drafted initial guidance statements based on literature cited in recent national and regional MGtreatment guidelines49 supplemented by other literature.Guidance statements were developed for the following1. Symptomatic and immunosuppressive IS treatments 2. IV immunoglobulin IVIg and plasma exchange PLEX 3. Impending and manifest myasthenic crisis 4. Thymectomy 5. Juvenile MG JMG 6. MG with antibodies to muscle-specific tyrosinekinase MuSK-MG 7. MG in pregnancyVoting process for consensus guidance treatment statements. We used the RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method RAM for formal consensus to quantify agreement.10 RAM uses a multi-round modified Delphi process to obtain a quantitative assessment that reflects the judgment of an expert group. Appropriateness refers to the relative benefit vs harm of the intervention.
Panelists responded by e-mail to the facilitator who tallied the votes and collated the discussions. Following each round of voting statements were modified by the Task Force cochairs and facilitator based on the panel feedback. Statements that did not achieve consensus within 3 rounds were excluded.For statements on symptomatic and IS therapies and thymectomy an initial round of e-mail voting was followed by a meeting in Durham North Carolina on March 1 2014. During this meeting statements that had undergone prior voting by e-mail were refined with panel input and a second round of voting was completed. All subsequent voting was by e-mail.The level of appropriateness and presence of agreement were determined for each statement as per RAM.10RESULTS All definitions below obtained simple consensus and all guidance statements below were agreed upon as being appropriate by the panel. Literature summaries and tables for medication dosing guidance and medication cautions are available as supplemental data at Neurology.org. Preliminary definitions. 1 end. Goals for the treatment of MG.
Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.MMS The patient has no symptoms or functional limitations from MG but has some weakness on examination of some muscles. This class recognizes that some patients who otherwise meet the definition of remission have mild weakness.CTCAE grade 1 medication side effects asymptomatic or only mild symptoms intervention not indicated.2. Definition of remission. The patient has no symptoms or signs of MG. Weakness of eyelid closure is accepted but there is no weakness of any other muscle on careful examination. Patients taking cholinesterase inhibitors ChEIs every day with reasonable evidence to support symptomatic benefit are therefore excluded from this category.3. Definition of ocular MG based on dysfunction due toMG at a specified point in time and not dependent upon the duration of disease.MGFA Class I3 Any ocular muscle weakness. May have weakness of eye closure. Strength in all other facial bulbar and limb muscles is normal. It is recognized that some patients report fatigue when strength testing is normal. The physician should use clinical judgment in attributing fatigue to generalized MG in the absence of objective nonocular weakness.4. Definition of impending myasthenic crisis.
Definition of manifest myasthenic crisis the concept ofcrisis focuses on the clinical implicationsit represents a seri-ous life-threatening rapid worsening of MG and potentialairway compromise from ventilatory or bulbar dysfunction. MGFA Class V3 Worsening of myasthenic weakness requiring intubation or noninvasive ventilation to avoid intubation except when these measures are employed during routine postoperative management the use of a feeding tube without intubation places the patient in MGFA Class IVB3.6. Definition of refractory MG. PIS3 is unchanged or worse after corticosteroids and at least 2 other IS agents used in adequate doses for an adequate duration with persistent symptoms or side effects that limit functioning as defined by patient and physician.Consensus guidance treatment statements.Symptomatic and IS treatment of MG. 1 end. Pyridostigmine should be part of the initial treatment in most patients with MG. Pyridostigmine dose should be adjusted as needed based on symptoms. The ability to discontinue pyridostigmine can be an indicator that the patient has met treatment goals and may guide the tapering of other therapies. Corticosteroids or IS therapy should be used in all patients withMGwho have not met treatment goals after an adequate trial of pyridostigmine.2.
A nonsteroidal IS agent should be used initially in conjunction with corticosteroids when the risk of steroid side effects is high based on medical comorbidities. A nonsteroidal IS agent should be added to corticosteroids when a. Steroid side effects deemed significant by thepatient or the treating physician develop b. Response to an adequate trial table e-1 of cor-ticosteroids is inadequate or c. The corticosteroid dose cannot be reduced dueto symptom relapse. 3 end. Nonsteroidal IS agents that can be used in MGinclude azathioprine cyclosporine mycophenolate mofetil methotrexate and tacrolimus. The following factors should be considered in selecting among these agents a. There is widespread variation in practice withrespect to choice of IS agent since there is little literature comparing them. b end. Expert consensus and some RCT evidence support the use of azathioprine as a first-line IS agent in MG. c end. Evidence from RCTs supports the use of cyclosporine in MG but potential serious adverse effects and drug interactions limit its use. d end. Although available RCT evidence does not support the use of mycophenolate and tacrolimus in MG both are widely used and one or both are recommended in several national MG treatment guidelines.47 4.
In addition to the previously mentioned IS agents the following therapies may also be used in refractory MG a. Chronic IVIg and chronic PLEX see IVIg andPLEX no. 6 b end. Cyclophosphamide c. Rituximab for which evidence of efficacy isbuilding but for which formal consensus could not be reached. 5 end. IS agent dosage and duration of treatment a. Once patients achieve treatment goals the cor-ticosteroid dose should be gradually tapered. In many patients continuing a low dose of corticosteroids long-term can help to maintain the treatment goal. b end. For nonsteroidal IS agents once treatment goals have been achieved and maintained for 6 months to 2 years the IS dose should be tapered slowly to the minimal effective amount. Dosage adjustments should be made no more frequently than every 36 months table e-1.Neurology 87 July 26 2016 3 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.c. Tapering of IS drugs is associated with risk of relapse which may necessitate upward adjustments in dose. The risk of relapse is higher in patients who are symptomatic or after rapid taper. d end. It is usually necessary to maintain some immunosuppression for many years sometimes for life. 6 end.
Changing to an alternative IS agent should be considered if adverse effects and complications are medically significant or create undue hardship for the patient.IVIg and PLEX.1. PLEX and IVIg are appropriately used as shortterm treatments in patients with MG with lifethreatening signs such as respiratory insufficiency or dysphagia in preparation for surgery in patients with significant bulbar dysfunction when a rapid response to treatment is needed when other treatments are insufficiently effective and prior to beginning corticosteroids if deemed necessary to prevent or minimize exacerbations. 2 end. The choice between PLEX and IVIg depends on individual patient factors e.g. PLEX cannot be used in patients with sepsis and IVIg cannot be used in renal failure and on the availability of each. 3 end. IVIg and PLEX are probably equally effective in the treatment of severe generalized MG. 4 end. The efficacy of IVIg is less certain in milder MG or in ocular MG. 5 end. PLEX may be more effective than IVIg in MuSKMG. 6 end. The use of IVIg as maintenance therapy can be considered for patients with refractoryMG or for those in whom IS agents are relatively contraindicated.Impending and manifest myasthenic crisis.
Also ChEIs increase airway secretions which may exacerbate breathing difficulties.PLEX and IVIg are the mainstay of management in myasthenic crisis.1. Impending crisis requires hospital admission and close observation of respiratory and bulbar function with the ability to transfer to an intensive care unit if it progresses to manifest crisis. Myasthenic crisis requires admission to an intensive care or step-down unit to monitor for or manage respiratory failure and bulbar dysfunction. 2 end. PLEX and IVIg are used as short-term treatment for impending and manifest myasthenic crisis andin patients with significant respiratory or bulbar dysfunction. Corticosteroids or other IS agents are often started at the same time to achieve a sustained clinical response. Because corticosteroids may cause transient worsening of myasthenic weakness it may be appropriate to wait several days for PLEX or IVIg to have a beneficial effect before starting corticosteroids. 3 end. Although clinical trials suggest that IVIg and PLEX are equally effective in the treatment of impending or manifest myasthenic crisis expert consensus suggests that PLEX is more effective and works more quickly.
A greater risk of hemodynamic and venous access complications with PLEX should also be considered in the decision many complications of PLEX are related to route of access and may be minimized by using peripheral rather than central venous access.Thymectomy in MG.1. In non-thymomatous MG thymectomy is performed as an option to potentially avoid or minimize the dose or duration of immunotherapy or if patients fail to respond to an initial trial of immunotherapy or have intolerable side-effects from that therapy. Because of the long delay in onset of effect thymectomy for MG is an elective procedure. It should be performed when the patient is stable and deemed safe to undergo a procedure where postoperative pain and mechanical factors can limit respiratory function. 2 end. The value of thymectomy in the treatment of prepubertal patients with MG is unclear but thymectomy should be considered in children with generalized AChR antibodypositive MG a. If the response to pyridostigmine and IS therapyis unsatisfactory or b.
With rare exceptions all patients with MG with thymoma should undergo surgery to remove the tumor. Removal of the thymoma is performed to rid the patient of the tumor and may not produce improvement in MG. All thymus tissue should be4 Neurology 87 July 26 2016 2016 American Academy of Neurology. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.removed along with the tumor. Further treatment of thymoma will be dictated by histologic classification and degree of surgical excision. Incompletely resected thymomas should be managed after surgery with an interdisciplinary treatment approach radiotherapy chemotherapy. 4 end. In elderly or multimorbid patients with thymoma palliative radiation therapy can be considered in the appropriate clinical setting. Small thymomas may be followed without treatment unless they are enlarging or become symptomatic. 5 end. Endoscopic and robotic approaches to thymectomy are increasingly performed and have a good track record for safety in experienced centers. Data from randomized controlled comparison studies are not available. Based on comparisons across studies less invasive thymectomy approaches appear to yield similar results to more aggressive approaches. 6 end.
Current evidence does not support an indication for thymectomy in patients with MuSK LRP4 or agrin antibodies.Juvenile MG see also Thymectomy in MG no. 2.1 end. Children with acquired autoimmune ocular MG are more likely than adults to go into spontaneous remission. Thus young children with only ocular symptoms of MG can be treated initially with pyridostigmine. Immunotherapy can be initiated if goals of therapy are not met. 2 end. Children are at particular risk of steroid side effects including growth failure poor bone mineralization and susceptibility to infection due in part to a delay in live vaccinations. Long-term treatment with corticosteroids should use the lowest effective dose to minimize side effects. 3 end. Maintenance PLEX or IVIg are alternatives to IS drugs in JMG.MG with MuSK antibodies.1. Many patients with MuSK-MG respond poorly to ChEIs and conventional pyridostigmine doses frequently induce side effects. 2 end. Patients with MuSK-MG appear to respond well to corticosteroids and to many steroid-sparing IS agents. They tend to remain dependent on prednisone despite concomitant treatment with steroidsparing agents. 3 end. MuSK-MG responds well to PLEX while IVIg seems to be less effective. 4 end.
Planning for pregnancy should be instituted well in advance to allow time for optimization of myasthenic clinical status and to minimize risks to the fetus. 2 end. Multidisciplinary communication among relevant specialists should occur throughout pregnancy during delivery and in the postpartum period. 3 end. Provided that their myasthenia is under good control before pregnancy the majority of women can be reassured that they will remain stable throughout pregnancy. If worsening occurs it may be more likely during the first few months after delivery. 4 end. Oral pyridostigmine is the first-line treatment during pregnancy. IV ChEIs may produce uterine contractions and should not be used during pregnancy. 5 end. Thymectomy should be postponed until after pregnancy as benefit is unlikely to occur during pregnancy. 6 end. Chest CT without contrast can be performed safely during pregnancy although the risks of radiation to the fetus need to be carefully considered. Unless there is a compelling indication postponement of diagnostic CT until after delivery is preferable. 7 end. Prednisone is the IS agent of choice during pregnancy. 8 end.
Current evidence indicates that mycophenolate mofetil and methotrexate increase the risk of teratogenicity and are contraindicated during pregnancy. These agents previously carried Food and Drug Administration FDA Category C cyclosporine D azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil and X methotrexate ratings. The FDA has recently discontinued this rating system and replaced it with a summary of the risks of using a drug during pregnancy and breastfeeding along with supporting data and relevant information to help health care providers make prescribing and counseling decisions12. Although this statement achieved consensus there was a strong minority opinion against the use of azathioprine in pregnancy. Azathioprine is the nonsteroidal IS of choice for MG in pregnancy in Europe but is considered high risk in the United States. This difference is based on a small number of animal studies and case reports. 9 end. PLEX or IVIg are useful when a prompt although temporary response is required during pregnancy. Careful consideration of both maternal and fetal issues weighing the risks of these treatments against the requirement for use during pregnancy and their potential benefits is required.Neurology 87 July 26 2016 5 2016 American Academy of Neurology.
Spontaneous vaginal delivery should be the objective and is actively encouraged. 11 end. Magnesium sulfate is not recommended for management of eclampsia in MG because of its neuromuscular blocking effects barbiturates or phenytoin usually provide adequate treatment. 12 end. All babies born to myasthenic mothers should be examined for evidence of transient myasthenic weakness even if the mothers myasthenia is well-controlled and should have rapid access to neonatal critical care support.DISCUSSION We have developed international guidance statements for the management of JMG and adult MG. We utilized recent national guidelines and a regional European guideline to assemble a foundation of literature supplementing their comprehensive literature reviews with additional articles identified by panelists. After reaching agreement on the treatment goals a 3-round anonymous modified Delphi voting process was used to obtain consensus on guidance statements.A limitation of consensus-based processes is that subconscious or conscious selection of like-minded panel members may result in opinions that are not representative of MG experts.
They are also not intended for establishing payment policies or drug tiering by payers.This is a living document that will require updates as the MG treatment theater continues to evolve. Despite the limitations of consensus-based methods these guidance statements reflect an up-to-date expert consensus to guide clinicians worldwide who strive to optimize function and quality of life for their patients with MG especially for those who practice in parts of the world that do not have the resources to develop local treatment guidelines. Any future trial of treatment that provides relevant information will merit review of these guidance statements. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS. D.B end. Sanders study concept and design grant application and management acquisition of data analysis or interpretation of data drafting/ revising the manuscript critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content study supervision. G.I end. Wolfe study concept and design acquisition of data analysis or interpretation of data drafting/ revising the manuscript critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content study supervision. M end. Benatar acquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. A end.
N.E end. Gilhus acquisition of data critical revision ofthe manuscript for important intellectual content. I end. Illa acquisition of data critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. N end. Kuntz acquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. J.M end. Massey acquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. A end. Melms acquisition of data critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. H end. Murai acquisition of data critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. J end. Palace acquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. M end. Nicolle acquisition of data drafting/revising the manuscript critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. D.P end. Richman acquisition of data critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. J end. Verschuuren acquisition of data critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. P end.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT. The authors thank MGFA Board member Jurgen Venitz MD PhD for providing insight from the patients perspective. STUDY FUNDING. Supported by a grant from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA. DISCLOSURE. D end. Sanders consultant for Accordant Health Services Cytokinetics GlaxoSmithKline and Jacobus Pharmaceutical Co. G end. Wolfe advisory board for Grifols Baxter CSL Behring and Syntimmune and research support from Alexion. M end. Benatar research support from the FDA R01FD003710 NIH U01NS084495 and Alexion. A end. Evoli scientific award jury member for Grifols. N end. Gilhus speakers honoraria from Octopharma Baxter and Merck Serono. I end. Illa research funding from Grifols and speaking fees and travel grants from Genzyme and Pfizer and consultant for Alexion UCB and Grifols. N end. Kuntz and J. Massey report no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. A end. Melms advisory board UCB. H end. Murai research funding from Biogen Novartis Bayer Tanabe Mitsubishi and the Japan Blood Products Organization. J end. Palace consultant for Merck Serono Biogen Idec Novartis Teva Chugai Pharma Alexion and Bayer Schering research funding from Merck Serono Novartis Biogen Idec and Bayer Schering. M end. Nicolle reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript.
Richman research funding from the Muscular Dystrophy Association Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of California and the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Illinois. J end. Verschuuren research support by NIH FP7 European grant 602420 consultant for Tyr pharma and arGEN-X. The LUMC receives royalties from IBL for antibody tests. P end. Narayanaswami serves on the Medical and Scientific Advisory Board Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA and Medical Advisory Board MGFA New England Chapter. Go to Neurology.org for full disclosures.Received August 25 2015. Accepted in final form February 19 2016. Efficacy of tacrolimus against Churg-Strauss syndrome in a patient with myasthenia gravis. Dear Sir Churg-Strauss syndrome CSS is characterized by pulmonary and systemic small-vessel necrotizing vasculitis and/or extravascular granulomas eosinophilia and tissue infiltration by eosinophils occurring in individuals with asthma and often allergic rhinitis or sinusal polyposis. We report the case of a myasthenia gravis MG patient who developed CSS and in whom tacrolimus was effective against the eruption of CSS.
every other day. However because her osteoporosis became more severe 6 months previously a switch had been made from PSL to tacrolimus 3 mg daily and her symptoms had continued to remain under control. Because her blood eosinophil count had recently risen in the absence of any precipitating cause the increase was suspected of being drug-induced and tacrolimus was stopped. However when she broke out in a rash 2 weeks later a drug eruption was suspected and she was referred to our department. Physical examination showed widespread purpura on her lower legs Fig. 1a end. Laboratory test revealed hypereosinophilia 7.82 9 10/l with elevated IgE 901 IU/ml normal up to 173 and high titers of rheumatoid factor 82 IU/ml normal 010. Myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody MPO-ANCA was negative and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody showed an increased value of 48 nmol/l normal up to 0.2. Skin biopsy showed necrotizing vasculitis with a marked eosinophilic infiltration. CSS was diagnosed and when treatment with tacrolimus 3 mg daily was resumed the eruption almost completely resolved in 1 week Fig. 1b end. CSS is rare with prevalence of 10.713 per million inhabitants 1 whereas the prevalence of MG is 50 per million inhabitants 2.
Although the number of cases has been very small there have been reports of associations between CSS and autoimmune diseases however this is the first report of a case in which there was an association between CSS and MG. The reason for the association between the two diseases in our patient is unknown but it is very possible that their association was coincidental. Skin lesions occur in 4075% of patients of CSS 3. Palpable purpura often necrotic on the legs and feet is the most frequent of these manifestations seen in half of the patients with skin involvement. Various cutaneous manifestations can also be found including petechiae erythema multiform-like lesions urticarial wheals vesicles ulceration papules cutaneous and subcutaneous nodules and livedo reticularis. Tacrolimus was effective in our patient and ours is the first case in which tacrolimus has been effective. Tacrolimus is a macrolide antibiotic with immunosuppressive properties which on molecular basis is 100 times more potent than that of cyclosporine A CsA. The most possible mechanism is its ability to inhibit the activation of T lymphocytes. Compared with CsA the adverse reactions of hypertrichosis and gingival S. Niiyama  Y. Amoh K end.
LETTER TO THE EDITOREfficacy of tacrolimus against Churg-Strauss syndrome in a patient with myasthenia gravis. Shiro Niiyama  Yasuyuki Amoh  Kosuke Suzuki  Tatsuhiko Wada  Kensei Katsuoka. Received 19 April 2009 / Accepted 21 June 2009 / Published online 7 July 2009Springer-Verlag 2009Dear SirChurg-Strauss syndrome CSS is characterized by pulmonary and systemic small-vessel necrotizing vasculitis and/or extravascular granulomas eosinophilia and tissue infiltration by eosinophils occurring in individuals with asthma and often allergic rhinitis or sinusal polyposis. We report the case of a myasthenia gravis MG patient who developed CSS and in whom tacrolimus was effective against the eruption of CSS.The patient was a 79-year-old woman diagnosed with MG and asthma 8 years previously who had initially been treated with prednisolone PSL 50 mg per os p.o. every other day and whose dose had been reduced to PSL 5 mg p.o. every other day. However because her osteoporosis became more severe 6 months previously a switch had been made from PSL to tacrolimus 3 mg daily and her symptoms had continued to remain under control.
However when she broke out in a rash 2 weeks later a drug eruption was suspected and she was referred to our department. Physical examination showed widespread purpura on her lower legs Fig. 1a end. Laboratory test revealed hypereosinophilia 7.82 9 109/l with elevated IgE 901 IU/ml normal up to 173 and high titers ofrheumatoid factor 82 IU/ml normal 010. Myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody MPO-ANCA was negative and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody showed an increased value of 48 nmol/l normal up to 0.2. Skin biopsy showed necrotizing vasculitis with a marked eosinophilic infiltration. CSS was diagnosed and when treatment with tacrolimus 3 mg daily was resumed the eruption almost completely resolved in 1 week Fig. 1b.CSS is rare with prevalence of 10.713 per million inhabitants 1 whereas the prevalence of MG is 50 per million inhabitants 2. The exact etiology of CSS is unclear but an autoimmune process is suggested based on the presence of T cell and eosinophil activation. Although the number of cases has been very small there have been reports of associations between CSS and autoimmune diseases however this is the first report of a case in which there was an association between CSS and MG.
Palpable purpura often necrotic on the legs and feet is the most frequent of these manifestations seen in half of the patients with skin involvement. Various cutaneous manifestations can also be found including petechiae erythema multiform-like lesions urticarial wheals vesicles ulceration papules cutaneous and subcutaneous nodules and livedo reticularis. Tacrolimus was effective in our patient and ours is the first case in which tacrolimus has been effective. Tacrolimus is a macrolide antibiotic with immunosuppressive properties which on molecular basis is 100 times more potent than that of cyclosporine A CsA. The most possible mechanism is its ability to inhibit the activation of T lymphocytes. Compared with CsA the adverse reactions of hypertrichosis and gingival S. Niiyama  Y. Amoh K end. Katsuoka Department of Dermatology Kitasato University School of Medicine 1-15-1 Kitasato Sagamihara Kanagawa 228-8555 Japan e-mail sniiyamaaol.com K. Suzuki T end. Wada Department of Internal Medicine Kitasato University School of Medicine Sagamihara JapanDOI 10.1007/s00296-009-1039-8hypertrophy are less common whereas neurotoxicity is more frequent. Nephrotoxicity occurs with the same frequency. Its indications in vasculitis either in topical or systemic use remain to be investigated.
Some factor triggered eosinophilia in our patient despite being treated with tacrolimus but nothing is known about the factor that triggered it. Efficacy of tacrolimus in treatment of polymyositis associated with myasthenia gravis. We report a patient with polymyositis PM associated with myasthenia gravis MG. Both disorders had been controlled for around 15 years by oral prednisolone and a cholinesterase inhibitor following surgical removal of invasive thymoma and radiotherapy but muscular weakness due to myalgia and an increase in serum levels of myogenic enzymes mainly ascribable to the recurrence of PM reappeared immediately after cessation of these drugs which was done because the patient had multiple bone fractures and severe osteoporosis due to the long-term corticosteroid therapy. Oral tacrolimus was therefore tried and produced an improvement in muscular symptoms in association with normalization of myogenic enzymes. PM associated with MG as in this patient might be the best indication for tacrolimus considering its efficacy in MG but this drug should also be actively considered as a therapeutic option in refractory cases of PM alone particularly when either corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents are not usable.
Introducion. Oral prednisolone is commonly accepted as a standard therapy for polymyositis PM although the long-term use of this drug frequently induces adverse effects including diabetes mellitus hypertension and osteoporosis. When oral prednisolone can no longer be used or increased because of such adverse effects immunosuppressive agents are usually employed. Here we describe a patient with PM associated with myasthenia gravis MG who showed a relapse of muscular symptoms 15 years after the onset of disease. Because this patient had severe osteoporosis and multiple bone fractures ascribable to long-term prednisolone therapy oral tacrolimus was used as an immunosuppressive agent for the treatment of the muscular symptoms and showed a good therapeutic effect. In this report we focus on the efficacy and clinical usefulness of tacrolimus in the treatment of PM particularly in MG-associated or intractable cases. Case report. A 37-year-old woman manifested bilateral blepharoptosis and muscular weakness in the extremities with no apparent precipitating cause and was admitted to our hospital. Physical examination showed moderate muscle weakness with daily fluctuation myalgia and easy fatiguability predominantly in the proximal portion of the extremities.
Antinuclear and anti-Jo-1 antibodies were negative. The muscle weakness partially and transiently improved immediately after intravenous administration of edrophonium chloride and an electromyographic study revealed waning of neuromuscular potentials on repetitive stimulation at a low frequency as well as myogenic changes. Muscle biopsy demonstrated infiltration of mononuclear cells especially in the perivascular areas and endomysium Fig. 1 leading to the diagnosis of PM associated with MG. Because associated invasive thymoma was seen on computed tomography CT the tumor was surgically removed and the area was then treated with irradiation at a total dose of 40 Gy. After this oral prednisolone was started at a dose of 50 mg/day in Y. Shimojima  T. Gono  K end. Yamamoto  K. Hoshi M end. Matsuda   S. Ikeda Third Department of Medicine Shinshu University School of Medicine 31-1 Asahi 3908621 Matsumoto Japan E-mail matsudahsp.md.shinshu-u.ac.jp Tel. 81-263-372673 Fax 81-263-373427 K. Yoshida Division of Clinical and Molecular Genetics Shinshu University School of Medicine 31-1 Asahi 3908621 Matsumoto Japanaddition to pyridostigmine bromide and her muscular symptoms gradually improved in parallel with a decrease in serum levels of CK and anti-AchR antibodies.
Because she developed multiple bone fractures in the ribs and spine ascribable to the long-term administration of prednisolone this drug was carefully tapered over a 4-year period. Although myasthenic symptoms sometimes reappeared in the extremities without myalgia a reincrease in serum levels of CK and anti-AchR antibodies was not seen in this period.Around 1 month after cessation of oral prednisolone however she manifested general fatigue and muscle weakness of the extremities with myalgia unresponsive to non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs. These symptoms gradually worsened and she was readmitted to our hospital. On admission physical examination showed moderate muscle weakness of the extremities especially in proximal portions with edema and myalgia in the bilateral legs and forearms. Because of the myalgia she was unable to walk briskly by herself. Laboratory data demonstrated an increase in muscular enzymes including CK 2274 U/l lactate dehydrogenase 469 U/l normal 114220 U/l aspartate aminotransferase AST 106 U/l normal 1237 U/l and alanine aminotransferase ALT 84 U/l normal 745 U/l with positive inflammatory markers CRP 2.43 mg/dl normal level <0.1 mg/ dl erythrocyte sedimentation rate 77 mm/h normal 311 mm/h.
Thyroid function was within normal limits. High intensity was seen in the bilateral leg muscles particularly in the gastrocnemius on magnetic resonance imaging MRI Fig. 2A corresponding with positive shadows on 67Ga scintigraphy. Chest CT demonstrated neither interstitial pneumonia nor recurrence of thymoma.Because of low serum levels of cortisol 3.0 lg/dl normal 515 lg/dl with hyperkalemia hydrocortisone was started soon after admission at a dose of 10 mg/day for possible adrenocortical dysfunction due to withdrawal of long-term oral prednisolone. Although the edema in the bilateral legs improved slightly together with the disappearance of general fatigue muscle weakness and myalgia persisted with a high serum level of CK. One month after admission therefore oral tacrolimus was started at a dose of 3 mg/ day and the plasma trough concentration was monitored to avoid harmful effects particularly nephrotoxicity. The muscle weakness and myalgia gradually improved in parallel with a decrease in inflammatory markers and myogenic enzymes including CK. She became able to walk briskly with no help and left our hospital 3 months after admission. She has since been in good general condition without any muscular symptoms and complications.
2B. end. Discussion. At the first admission to our hospital this patient was considered to have MG based on clinical features consisting of easy fatiguability muscle weakness with daily fluctuation a positive edrophonium chloride test and a high titer of anti-AchR antibodies. The presence of invasive thymoma also supported the diagnosis of MG. In this patient however there were several clinical findings unexplainable by MG alone including myalgia and an increase in the serum level of CK. As muscle biopsy demonstrated severe infiltration of mononuclear cells this patient simultaneously fulfilled the classification criteria for PM 1. Considering that this infiltration was seen in the endomysium with neither perifascicular atrophy nor vacuolar formation in muscle fibers the patient was classifiable as having PM also following recently proposed criteria 2 although surface antigens including CD8 and major histocompatibility complex class I could not be immunohistopathologically examined because of a lack of frozen specimens 2 3 4. Also in around a half of patients with MG focal clusters of lymphocytes designated as lymphorrhages appear in affected muscles but the serum level of CK usually remains within normal limits.
In general many kinds of autoimmune diseases can be associated with MG 5. Among them PM is relatively rare 5 6 7 and invasive thymoma is frequently concomitant as an underlying disease in cases of PM associated with MG 8. Invasive thymoma is probably related to the pathogenesis of both PM and MG and this patient was successfully treated with surgical removal of invasive thymoma and oral prednisolone as shown in previous reports 8 9 10.On readmission to our hospital 15 years after onset of the disease the main cause of muscle weakness with myalgia was considered to be PM on the basis of an increase in serum levels of muscular enzymes including CK and inflammatory markers. Anti-AchR antibodies in serum remained at a low level and there was no apparent clinical evidence suggesting a recurrence of MG. Although the patient was at first treated with lowdose hydrocortisone for adrenocortical insufficiency ascribable to cessation of long-term oral prednisolone the muscle weakness and myalgia persisted. In the treatment for recurrence of PM oral prednisolone is usually employed as the first-line drug 11 12 13. In this patient however multiple bone fractures ascribable to long-term oral prednisolone were present and this drug could not be used again for treatment.
When muscular symptoms due to PM are resistant to these drugs other immunomodulatory treatments such as high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin can also be considered as a therapeutic option 19 20. As this patient sometimes showed the reappearance of myasthenic symptoms tacrolimus was selected from among these candidate drugs because of its effectiveness also in MG 21 22 23 particularly in thymectomized patients following the guidelines approved by the Ministry of Public Health and Welfare of Japan. This drug is classified among immunosuppressive agents acting as calcineurin inhibitors and reversibly and strongly suppresses cytokine production mainly from helper T cells such as cyclosporin A 24. In this patient tacrolimus was used for the treatment of PM but also to prevent the recurrence of. MG. end. At present there is only one clinical report demonstrating the efficacy of tacrolimus in the treatment of refractory PM 25. According to this report all cases showed improvement of muscle weakness in parallel with normalization of CK in serum within 6 months of the initiation of tacrolimus. In this patient also the serum level of CK returned to a normal value 3 months after initiation of tacrolimus and muscle strength gradually recovered in 6 months.
With respect to immunosuppressive potency tacrolimus is 10100 times superior to cyclosporin A 26. In systemic lupus erythematosus a recent reportdemonstrated successful treatment with tacrolimus in cases unresponsive to cyclosporin A 27.Tacrolimusmight be useful in PMassociated withMG as in this patient and can probably be employed even in refractory cases of PM alone. When prednisolone and other immunosuppressive agents are not usable because of their ineffectiveness and/or harmful effects tacrolimus should actively be considered as a therapeutic option in. PM. end. end. SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF MYASTHENIA GRAVIS WITH TACROLIMUS. ABSTRACT Tacrolimus FK-506 is a calcium-calcineurin inhibitor successfully used in transplant recipients. We report the successful use of tacrolimus as a single immunosuppressant in a patient who had developed myasthenia gravis MG during interferon alpha treatment. In this case the coexistence of hepatitis C and type 2 diabetes mellitus contraindicated the use of both steroids and azathioprine and cyclosporine A although effective had induced renal failure. Tacrolimus proved to be effective in the treatment of MG was not significantly hepatotoxic and was less nephrotoxic than cyclosporine. 2002 John Wiley  Sons Inc. Muscle Nerve 25 111114 2002.
We report the successful use of tacrolimus as a single immunosuppressant in a patient who had developed myasthenia gravis MG during interferon alpha treatment. In this case the coexistence of hepatitis C and type 2 diabetes mellitus contraindicated the use of both steroids and azathioprine and cyclosporine A although effective had induced renal failure. Tacrolimus proved to be effective in the treatment of MG was not significantly hepatotoxic and was less nephrotoxic than cyclosporine. 2002 John Wiley  Sons Inc. Muscle Nerve 25 111114 2002. SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF MYASTHENIA GRAVIS WITH TACROLIMUS. AMELIA EVOLI MD CHIARA DI SCHINO MD FRANCESCA MARSILI MD and. CHIARA PUNZI MD. Institute of Neurology Catholic University L. go F end. Vito 1 00168 Rome ItalyAccepted 28 August 2001Myasthenia gravis MG is an immune-mediated disorder of neuromuscular transmission caused usually by antibodies against muscle acetylcholine receptors AChR.5 Its current treatment includes several immunosuppressive agents such as corticosteroids azathioprine cyclosporine A and mycophenolate mofetil.212 As MG is a chronic disease patients generally require long-term treatment which is very effective but also has a number of serious side effects.
It acts through the inhibition of the calciumcalcineurin pathway and exerts its immunosuppressive effect by reducing the proliferation of activated T cells. Tacrolimus has proven to be a valid alternative to cyclosporine in the treatment of transplant recipients17 and has been effective in treating different immune-mediated diseases.61321 We now reportthe successful treatment of a patient with MG using tacrolimus as the sole immunosuppressive agent. CASE REPORT. A 56-year-old man first complained in February 1996 of intermittent ptosis diplopia and difficulty in chewing and swallowing after 3 months therapy with interferon-alpha 2b Intron A 3 million units subcutaneously three times each week for hepatitis C HCV genotype 1 b. He was also affected by type 2 diabetes mellitus that was managed with metformin.Neuromuscular symptoms persisted after interferon had been discontinued and limb weakness developed in the ensuing weeks. MG was diagnosed on the basis of a positive response to edrophonium injection 15% decrement of the compound muscle action potential CMAP of the deltoid muscle at low-rate 3 HZ repetitive nerve stimulation and elevated serum AChR antibodies 4.2 nM/L.
Clinical examination revealed bilateral ptosis diplopia due to paresis of left lateral rectus muscle facial weakness mild dysphagia and dysarthria weakness of both upper limbs and fatiguability arms outstretched for 30 s corresponding to a quantitative MG QMG score19 of 14. Vital capacity was within the normal limits. Blood glucose levels were within Abbreviations ACE angiotensin-converting enzyme AChR acetylcholine receptor CMAP compound muscle action potential GAD glutamic acid decarboxylase GGT gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase HCV hepatitis C virus MG myasthenia gravis QMG score quantitative myasthenia gravis score Key words cyclosporine diabetes mellitus HCV infection myasthenia gravis tacrolimus Correspondence to A. Evoli e-mail a.evolivsb.it  2002 John Wiley  Sons Inc. DOI 10.1002/mus.10018MG Treatment with Tacrolimus MUSCLE  NERVE January 2002 111the normal range with metformin treatment 500 mg twice daily blood biochemical screening tests were normal apart from a serum gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase GGT of 84 U/L normal range 445 serum HCV RNA levels measured by reverse transcriptionpolymerase chain reaction assay were 600000 copies/ml histological evaluation of a liver biopsy specimen was consistent with chronic hepatitis thyroid antibody and hormone levels w. ere normal.
Histological examination showed an involuted thymus with predominance of adipose tissue without evidence of lymphoid follicles. At that time AChR antibody titer was 1.7 nM/L and HCV RNA levels were 1190000 copies/ ml. Treatment remained unaltered after surgery.In April 1999 the patient was found to have arterial hypertension 180/110 mmHg laboratory tests were consistent with mild nephropathy blood urea nitrogen 36 mg/dl serum creatinine 1.6 mg/ dl serum potassium 5.5 mEq/L. He was placed on a low-protein and low-sodium diet and antihypertensive treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme ACE inhibitors was started. In order to reduce nephrotoxicity the cyclosporine dosage was gradually reduced to 100 mg/day but had to be increased again to 200 mg/day owing to worsening MG with ptosis constant diplopia and weakness of neck and limb muscles QMG score 15.In September 1999 the patient who had neglected his dietary restrictions and antidiabetic therapy was readmitted to hospital complaining of increased weakness weight loss recurrent headaches and visual flashes. He was found to have decompensated diabetes arterial hypertension and mild renal failure blood urea nitrogen 50 mg/dl serum creatinine 1.7 mg/dl serum potassium 5.5 mEq/L.
Cyclosporine was discontinued and the patient was placed on tacrolimus 2 mg twice daily approximately 0.05 mg/ kg with unaltered pyridostigmine dosage. Myasthenic symptoms began to improve after 2 weeks of therapy.In December 1999 clinical examination showed only fatiguability of upper limb muscles and mild weakness of orbicularis oculi muscles QMG score 3. Tacrolimus blood level was 11.5 ng/ml recommended range 515 ng/ml. Renal function indices were improved blood urea nitrogen 37 mg/dl serum creatinine 2.1 mg/dl and serum potassium within the normal range blood pressure was under control but normalization of glucose levels required an increase in gliquidone dosage to 90 mg/day. In the ensuing months tacrolimus dosage was reduced to 1 mg twice daily without exacerbating his MG symptoms.At the last follow-up evaluation in February 2001 the patient appeared in pharmacological remission19 clinical examination showed isolated weakness of eyelid closure absence of ptosis and diplopia with normal function of extra-ocular muscles no bulbar signs and neither weakness nor fatiguability of limb muscles. Tacrolimus blood level was 9.6 ng/ ml.
At that time serum AChR antibody titer was 3 nM/L and HCV RNA levels were 1700000 copies/ml.Antiislet cell and anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase anti-GAD antibodies were assayed before and after tacrolimus treatment by indirect immunofluorescence22 and by immunohystochemistry10 respectively they were both absent. DISCUSSION. In our patient MG occurred during interferonalpha 2b treatment and persisted after interferon discontinuation. Both development and deterioration of immune-mediated disorders during such treatment for malignant diseases and viral hepatitis have been previously described.79 We previously reported the occurrence of MG 1 and this has subsequently been confirmed by other authors.1420In the present case the presence of disabling weakness required immunosuppressive treatment112 MG Treatment with Tacrolimus MUSCLE  NERVE January 2002but the concomitant presence of diabetes mellitus and hepatitis were contraindi. cations to the use of both steroids and azathioprine. The patient responded well to cyclosporine A but this treatment was complicated by the occurrence of significant nephrotoxicity.
T lymphocytes. Like cyclosporine tacrolimus interferes with both the activation and the nuclear import of the nuclear factor of activated T cells required for the expression of cytokine genes involved in T-cell activation.3 Although tacrolimus and cyclosporine act in a similar fashion the potency of tacrolimus appears to be 10 to 100 times greater than that of cyclosporine.13Tacrolimus has been used successfully in the treatment of autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus connective tissue dis. eases autoimmune hepatitis and enteropathy.61321 It has not been previously employed in the treatment of MG although it prevents the induction of experimental autoimmune MG through decrease in antigen-specific T-cell response.23 In the present case tacrolimus was as effective in controlling MG as cyclosporine even though at a dosage of 1 mg twice a day it was less efficient in reducing AChR antibody levels.Hyperglycemia is a well-recognized complication of immunosuppression with tacrolimus16 thi.
However we did not find any evidence of autoimmune diabetes as although our patient was predisposed to autoimmunity both antiislet cell and anti-GAD antibodies remained negative during tacrolimus treatment.Serial assays of HCV RNA levels revealed a steady increase of viral replication during the follow-up period. This finding which was not associated withworsening of liver function indices can be nonspecifically related to immunosuppressive therapy rather than to any specific drug.In conclusion in the patient here reported tacrolimus at low doses was effective in the treatment of MG was not significantly hepatotoxic and was less nephrotoxic than cyclosporine. It should be considered as an alternative treatment for patients with disabling MG that is not responsive to conventional immunosuppressants or when these other agents are contraindicated.The authors thank Dr. B end. Giometto for testing for anti-GAD antibodies. Dose optimisation of tacrolimus with therapeutic drug monitoring and CYP3A5 polymorphism in myasthenia gravis patients. Background and purpose Tacrolimus was beneficial for treatment of myasthenia gravis MG. And it has a narrow therapeutic range therefore therapeutic drug monitoring TDM  is essential for tacrolimus to optimize dosage and prevent adverse reactions.
Thus we aimed to analyze the influencing factors and discuss how to optimal tacrolimus dosage for MG treatment. A ccep teThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Background and purpose Tacrolimus was beneficial for treatment of myasthenia gravisMG. And it has a narrow therapeutic range therefore therapeutic drug monitoring TDM is essential for tacrolimus to optimize dosage and prevent adverse reactions. However nostudies have explored the influencing factors of tacrolimus blood concentration in MGpatients. Thus we aimed to analyze the influencing factors and discuss how to optimaltacrolimus dosage for MG treatment.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Methods The data of clinical characteristics therapeutic drugs and adverse reactionsof patients with MG who received tacrolimus were collected from 2013 to 2015 in BeijingHospital. Tacrolimus whole-blood concentrations were measured by chemiluminescentmicroparticle immunoassay CMIA and CYP3A53 gene polymorphism was detected bydigital fluorescence molecule hybridization fluorescence.
The adverse reaction was related to blood concentration CYP3A5 geneticpolymorphisms and combined medication though logistic regression analysis.Conclusions The concentration of tacrolimus is affected by many factors. TDM anddetection of CYP3A5 polymorphism gene was essential for dosage optimization in MGpatients.IntroductionMyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease with neuromuscular junctiontransmission dysfunction caused by acetylcholine receptor antibodies. Immunosuppressive therapy is considered to be an important therapeutic regimen in the treatment of MG. Tacrolimus is a widely used calcineurin inhibitor in liver kidney transplantation to prevent rejection. Morever it also is well applied in the treatment of MG and other autoimmune diseases. A literature showed that tacrolimus was beneficial for improvements in quantitative MG score QMGS and post intervention status criteriaMyasthenia Gravis Foundation of America PSC-MGFA and reduction of steroid 1.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Tacrolimus has a narrow therapeutic range and dose-dependent toxicity thereforetherapeutic drug monitoringTDMis essential for tacrolimus to optimize the therapeuticdosage.
More patients with adequate tacrolimus concentration achieved minimal manifestation or better status compared with those with low tacrolimus concentration. Because tacrolimus has a large intra- and inter-individual pharmacokinetic variability and numerous factors which are supposed to contribute to whole blood concentration including patient characteristics gene polymorphism co-administration and so on. There were several researches on how to optimize the dosage of tacrolimus in organ transplant patients. The treatment regimen and therapeutic window of tacrolimus for MG patients is very different from those for transplant patients. However no studies have explored the influencing factors for tacrolimus blood concentration in MG treatment. Thus in this study we aimed to analyze the influencing factors and discuss how to optimal tacrolimus dosage for MG treatment. 1 Materials and methods. end. 1.1 end. Data collection. MG patients who were given tacrolimus treatment and received tacrolimus bloodconcentration monitoring were invited to participate in this study from2013 to 2015 in Beijing Hospital.
The patients with severe hepatic defined as ALT/AST/ALP >5 ULN upper limit of normal TBIL/DBIL >3 ULN renal dysfunction defined as Ccr Creatinine Clearance <50ml/min and cancer were excluded. The study was approved by the ethics committee of Beijing Hospital and written informed consents were obtained from all study subjects.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 1.2 Therapeutic drug monitoring. Tacrolimus whole-blood concentrations were measured by chemiluminescentmicroparticle immunoassayCMIAARCHITECT I1000SR Abbott Lboratories AbbottPark Illinois USA. For all patients the scheduled dosing intervals were 12h. The patients took tacrolimus at 8am and 8pm in every day. The maintenance dosage of tacrolimus was adjusted depending on the tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations C0. C0 was minimum concentration in every day. And the bloods were taken usually at 730pm before the patients took tacrolimus in the morning. The target concentration range of C0 was from 5 to 10ng/mL as recommended 1. 1.3 CYP3A53 genotyping. Ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid anticoagulated blood was collected and total genomicDNA was extracted from peripheral leucocytes.
1.4 Statistical analysis. Statistical analyses and calculations were performed using SPSS version 19.0 software.T-test was used for comparisons between two groups and the analysis of variance test for comparisons among several groups. It was considered to be significant if P<0.05.The ratio of tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and dosage C0/D was applied when correlations of trough concentrations with age weight sex and CYP3A53 genotype were analyzed. Pearson Correlation Coefficient was calculated to assess the correlation between the C0/D ratio and individual characteristics. Stepwise multiple regression analysis was used to establish multiple regression model in order to predict C0 and C0/D ratio. Logistic regression analysis was applied to analyze the influencing factors of adverse reactions.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 2 end. Results end. end. 2.1 Patient characteristics. A total of 171 MG patients were identified of whom 85 49.7% were men and 8650.3% were women. Mean age was 54.9316.72 years and mean body weight was 69.6013.70kg.Among them there were 10 patients of type I 39 patients of type IIb 72 patients of type IIa 13 patients of type III and 37 patients of type IV according to the Osserman classification.
The mean maintenance dosage of tacrolimus was 2.630.84mg/d range 15mg/d. 2.2 Tacrolimus dosage and blood trough concentrations levels. A total of 254 tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations were measured in all 171MG patients at steady-state The steady-state meant that the rate of drug absorption and elimination reached a balance and the concentration of blood drug was relatively stable at a certain level. According to the target concentration range 5-10ngmL -1  the concentrations were divided into 3 groups such as sub-therapeutic normal and supra-therapeutic. It was shown that C0 was not exactly increased with the increase of dosage Table1 S1. And there was also no significant correlation between C0 and weight corrected daily dosage ratios D/W D/W Figure S1. 2.3 Patient characteristics and blood trough concentrations levels. Some patient characteristics possibly affecting tacrolimus blood levels were analyzed.C0/D ratio was not found significant difference in sex P0.095 age P0.47 and weight P0.95 Table 1. It was shown that C0/D ratio was not associated with age and weight by Pearson Correlation Analysis that correlation coefficients were -0.014 and 0.08 respectively.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Almost 60.6% of concentrations 154/254 were subjected to CYP3A53 genetic testing.The polymorphism for CYP3A51/1 1/3 and 3/3 were 2314.9%6441.6% and6743.5% respectively. The genotype distribution is consistent with HardyWeinbergequilibrium P0.05.There were no significant difference in sex age and weight among thedifferent genotype groups P0.05.The C0/D ratios of tacrolimus in the CYP3A53/3 group were significantly higher thanCYP3A51/3 groups and CYP3A51/3 groups were also higher when compared with those in the CYP3A51/1 groups among the 73 concentrations 47.4% 73/154 who were not used concomitant drugs potentially interfering with tacrolimus metabolism P0.0082 T. able 2 end. Tacrolimus concentrations were also compared in patients on the same tacrolimus medication regimen between different genotype groups. For the recommended dose of 3mg/d a significant difference of C0 levels were observed among CYP3A53 genotype groups P0.024. Figure 1.It was also shown that C0 could reach the effective concentration when almost 2-3mg/dtacrolimus was used for patients with CYP3A533 genotype and 2mg/d was adequate for 59.3% 16/27 of them.
2.5 The influence of combined medication on C0/D ratio. Almost 55.90% of cases 142/254 had concomitant drugs potentially interfering withtacrolimus such as corticosteroid clarithromycin calcium channel blockers CCBproton pump inhibitors PPI and combination of various drugsat least 2 combinations of these drugs with tacrolimus. There were no significant differences in other factors among the groups with different combined medication. Co-administration of PPI and clarithromycin significantly increased the tacrolimus whole blood levelP3.1310 -8  while corticosteroid CCB or PPI had not influenced trough levelsP0.05despite a tendency towardssignificanceFigure 2. In addition the information about CYP3A5 gene polymorphism in each combined drug was shown Table S2.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 2.6 Relationship between trough levels adverse reactions.
The mean drug levels 6.648.99ngmL-1 ofpatients with adverse reactions related to tacrolimus was higher than that had no adverse reactions 4.452.89 ngmL -1  P0.038.To follow up these results the adverse reactions of patients in different concentration ranges were statistically analyzed. It was revealed that the incidences of adverse reaction were increased by the increase of blood concentration such as 29.6% 32/108 in less than 5 ngmL -1  39.6% 21/53 in the range of 5-10 ngmL -1  66.7% 4/6 in the range of 10-20 ngmL -1 and 100% 4/6 in more than 20ngmL -1 . 2.7 Regression analysis. end. 2.7.1 Multiple linear regression analysis for predict C0 and C0/D ratios. The correlation between the blood concentration of tacrolimus and various factorsgender age weight dosage CYP3A5 genotypes combined medication was analyzed by multiple linear regression to predict the C0 and C0/D ratios of tacrolimus. It was shown that C0 had correlation with D CYP3A5 genotypes and combined clarithromycin P<0.05 Table S3 and C0/D had correlation with CYP3A5genotypes and combined clarithromycin P<0.05 Table S4. While others factors had no significant correlation with C0 P>0.05.Final regression models were established to predict the C0 and C0/D ratios of tacrolimus.
All rights reserved. 2.7.2 Logistic regression analysis for predict adverse reaction. Logistic regression analysis was used to explore the risk factors gender age weightdosage CYP3A5genotypes combined medication for adverse reaction in MG patients given tacrolimus. It was the result that blood concentration of tacrolimus CYP3A533 carrier and combined with corticosteroid were the key risk factors for adverse reaction in our study P<0.05. While others factors had no significant correlation with adverse reaction P>0.05. Table S5 end. 3 Discussion. TDM and pharmacogenetic are important technology for the adjustment of an individualdosage of tacrolimus with narrow therapeutic index to improve drug efficacy and prevent adverse reaction. This study analyzed the factors influencing tacrolimus concentration in MG patients and the role of CYP3A5 polymorphism for dosage optimisation.The intra-day and inter-day variation coefficient of CMIA method were less than 10%so this method could detect tacrolimus whole blood concentrations precisely. For each patient the patients daily blood concentration was fluctuating in trough concentration before medication and peak concentration 1-2 hours after medication.
It was hard for get the peak concentration on time because the peak time Tmax has obvious difference in different patients. So it is reasonable to choose trough concentration in steady state as index for TDM in order to avoid the disturbance of variation.Our study showed that tacrolimus blood concentration was not entirely determined bydosage in MG patients. Almost only 34.1% of the MG patients blood concentrations could reach the target concentration range when they were given 3mg/d recommended by the guideline of treatment for myasthenia gravis in China 3.In our study blood concentrations were not significant influenced by patientscharacteristics including sex age and weight. However it was reported that lower tacrolimus exposure was detected in females in comparison to males 4 and tacrolimus dosage was calculated by weight when administered for organ transplant patients in its drug instruction.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright.
Several studies revealed that C0/D ratio of tacrolimus was changed in transplantation patients when they were co-administrated with tacrolimus and these drugs such as antifungal drugs fluconazole itraconazole ketoconazole miconazole clotrimazole PPI omeprazole pantoprazole CCB amlodipine diltiazem verapamil macrolide antibiotics clarithromycin erythromycin and corticosteroid 5-8.But in this study we did not find an association between tacrolimus concentration and corticosteroid. Meanwhile CCB amlodipine and nifedipine had not significantly influenced the tacrolimus levels. These were maybe the reasons of not including the patients with co-combined use of diltiazem and verapamil and also did not consider the effects in different classification dosage of corticosteroid in our study. Because corticosteroids are common in patients with MG combined drugs and it was suggested that patients should be closely monitoring the blood concentration of tacrolimus during the change periods of corticosteroids dosage especially when patients were given with high dose corticosteroids shock treatment.Another factor that was found to significantly influence tacrolimus blood concentrationswas CYP3A53 gene polymorphism.
It was observed that the CYP3A53 genetic could also affect tacrolimus blood concentrations in MG patients and the suitable dosage reached target concentration was difference in different genotype patients rather than 3mg/d as guideline in China. Thus if the CYP3A5 gene was detected before the administration of tacrolimus doctors could predict the target dosage approximately in order to formulate treatment regimen more reasonably and avoid adverse reaction instead of repeatedly adjusting the dosage. Our study shown that 2mg/d tacrolimus was better suitable for the patients with CYP3A533 at least 3mg/d was adequate for CYP3A513 and more than 3mg/d was used for CYP3A511 carrier.Meanwhile we refer to the adverse reaction of tacrolimus. There were two patients withMG who discontinued tacrolimus because of side-effects. One was co-administration of clarithromycin resulted in tacrolimus concentrations more than 60ng/ml and the other oneA ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.was who had decrease greatly in white blood cells.
Our study shown that incidences of adverse reaction were increased by the increase of blood concentration and they were greatly increased especially when the blood concentration was more than 10ng/ml29.6% in less than 5 ngmL-1 39.6% in the range of 5-10 ngmL -1  66.7% in the range of 10-20 ngmL -1 and 100% in more than 20ngmL -1. Meanwhile the result of logistic regression analysis indicated that bloodconcentration of tacrolimus was the key risk factor for adverse reaction in our study. Therefore it was essential of therapeutic drug monitoring to prevent side-effect.Finally we established regression analysis models to in order to achieve the desiredconcentration of tacrolimus and predict the risk of adverse events. The dosage requirements should be carefully controlled in order to achieve the desired concentration of tacrolimus. The desired daily dosage was optimized by the equations in table 3. Our study was the first regression analysis of tacrolimus involved patient characteristics CYP3A5 genetic polymorphisms combined medication and other factors in MG patients.
In our study we found that the CYP3A5 genetic polymorphisms combined medication were the key factors for blood concentration and adverse reaction was related to blood concentration CYP3A5 genetic polymorphisms and combined medication. Thus TDM and detection of CYP3A5 polymorphism gene was essential for dosage optimization in MG patients.There are still several limitations of our study that should be noted. Other factors thatmay also impact exposure of tacrolimus including other genetic factors such as MDR1 polymorphism abnormal liver or renal function co-administration of other drugs that have potential interaction still need to be investigated to predict the tacrolimus dose more precisely. We failed to find the relationship between the concentration and treatment response in the MG patients. A future study may involve the treatment effect for MG patients.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 4 end. Conclusion. In conclusion the whole blood concentration of tacrolimus in MG patients is not entirelydetermined by the dosage and it is also influenced by many factors such as co-administration of PPI CYP3A53 genetic polymorphism and so on. Multiple factors lead to great individual variability.
Therefore TDM and CYP3A53 genetic polymorphism is warranted for tacrolimus dosing adjustment to optimize the treatment for patients with MG.References for online-only E-extra publication1 Cruz JL Wolff ML Vanderman AJ et al.The emerging role of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis J.Ther Adv Neurol Disord. 20158292-103.2 Kanai T Uzawa A Kawaguchi N et al. Adequate tacrolimus concentration for myasthenia gravis treatment J. Eur J Neurol. 2017 242270-275.3 Neuroimmunology group of Chinese society of neurology Neuroimmunology associationChinese Society for Immunology. Guideline of diagnosis and treatment of myasthenia gravis inChina 2015J. Chin J Neurol. 2015 4811934-940. 4 Rani N Dragojevi-Simi V Vavi N et al. Tacrolimusconcentration/dose ratio as a. therapeutic drug monitoring strategythe influence of gender and comedicationJ.VojnosanitPregl 2015729813-822.5 Takeuchi H Iwamoto H Nakamura Y et al. Synergistic effects of calcineurin inhibitors and steroids on steroid sensitivity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells.Cell Med 2015 7 5155.6 Zuo Xiao-Cong Zhou Ya-Nan Zhang Bi-Kui et al. Effect of CYP3A53 polymorphism on pharmacokinetic drug interaction between tacrolimus and amlodipine. Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2013285398-405.7 Zhao Wei Baudouin Vronique Fakhoury May et al.
Transplantation. 2012937e29-30.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.8 Li J-L Wang X-D Chen S-Y et al. Effects of diltiazem on pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus in relation to CYP3A5 genotype status in renal recipients from retrospective to prospective. Pharmacogenomics J. 2011114300-306.9 Rojas L Neumann I Herrero M Jet al. Effect of CYP3A53 on kidney transplantrecipients treated with tacrolimus a systematic review and meta-analysis of observationalstudies J.Pharmacogenomics J201515138-48.10 Buendia J A Bramuglia G Staatz C E. Effects of combinational CYP3A5 6986A>Gpolymorphism in graft liver and native intestine on the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus in livertransplant patients a meta-analysis J. Ther Drug Monit2014364442-447.11 Jacobsen PA Schladt D Israni A et al. Genetic and clinical determinants of early acute calcineurin inhibitorrelated nephrotoxicity result from a kidney transplant consortium. Transplantation 2012 93 6246312 Chen YS Liu ZQ Chen R et al. Population pharmacokinetic analysis of tacrolimus in Chinese myasthenia gravis patients J. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 20173881195-1204.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright.
50-74 12950.8 1.961.56. end. 75-99 9135.8 2.122.39. >100 415.7 2.201.79A ccep ted AThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Predicted value Regression equation R PC0 ngmL -1lgC00.2350.973lgD0.138PM-0.280EM0.143IM0.439Clar 0.557 <0.001C0/D ratio ngmL -1 /mgd -1  lgC0/D0.2250.138PM-0.284EM -0.144IM0.439Clar0.548 <0.001lgC0 the logarithm of C0 based 10 lgC0/D the logarithm of C0/D based 10 lgD the logarithm of D based 10 EMCYP3A51/1 genotypes were set at the value of 1 IMCYP3A51/3 genotypes were set at the value of 1 PMCYP3A53/3 genotypes were set at the value of 1 other genotypes or unknown gene wer. e set at the value of 0 Clar combined with clarithromycin was defined at the value of 1 not combined with clarithromycin was defined at the value of 0.A ccep ted Art icleThis article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Figure 1 Distribution of tacrolimus C0 levels in different CYP3A5 genotypes patients received 3mg/d. Black represent supra-therapeutic level groups Grey represent sub-theraputic level groupsLight grey represent sub-theraputic level groups.
All rights reserved.Figure 2 The influence of co-administration on C0/D ratio. The abscis represent the type of concomitant medication. The columns represent the averages of C0/D when the patients simultaneously received no other drugs influencing concentration of tacrolimus combined with corticosteroid combined with CCB combined with PPI combined with PPIClarithromycin and combined various drugs influencing concentration of tacrolimus respectively. The n represent the numbers of patients.1.90 1.76 1.99 2.238.012.330.001.002.003.004.005.006.007.008.00 9.00 C 0  n g m L1 Concomitant drugsmean C0/D. Myasthenic crisis after the cessation of FK506 in a patient with myasthenia gravis. Sirs It is widely accepted that myasthenia gravis MG a T-cell dependent chronic autoimmune disorder is induced by sustained production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junction 1. Tacrolimus FK506 a macrolide immunosuppressant derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis 5 was used in clinical trials 2 11 and also in one open-labeled clinical trial 6. This is the first report of a myasthenic crisis after abrupt discontinuation of tacrolimus treatment.
She underwent thymomectomy in September 1996 followed by cobalt irradiation therapy 48Gy total dose to treat thymoma cells invading the right lung. In January 2001 she was started on tacrolimus 3 mg/day in addition to steroids prednisolone 15 mg/day. Her myasthenic condition was II a according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification 4. By the end of May 2001 laboratory examination showed her blood glucose level 407 mg/dL blood ketone body 753mol/L C peptide 4.3 ng/mL normal > 1.0ng/mL hemoglobin A1c 11.5 % normal < 6 %. Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase antibody and anti-insulinoma-associated protein 2 antibody were negative. She was given subcutaneous injections of insulin maximum total dose 70 U/day and at this time tacrolimus was discontinued Figure. In September 2001 she was readmitted with arrhythmia caused by radiation-induced cardiomyopathy. Her myasthenic condition was II a. She suddenly developed respiratory distress and dysphagia on 9 September and laboratory findings showed an increase in the titer of the anti-AChR antibody 490 nmol/L. She was on an artificial respirator and having tube feeding.
In midOctober 2001 the addition of azathioprine max 125 mg/day improved her myasthenic condition in parallel with a reduction in the titer of the anti-AChR antibody Figure. Her diabetic condition gradually improved associated with an increase in the titer of C peptide and it could be managed by diet alone Figure. In March 2002 her myasthenic condition was very mild II a without ptosis and the LETTER TO THE EDITORS. J Neurol 2004 251  11541155 DOI 10.1007/s00415-004-0504-2. Tetsuro Konishi Mitsuru Sanada Kazuya Takehana. Myasthenic crisis after the cessation of FK506 in a patient with myasthenia gravisReceived 25 September 2003 Received in revised form 16 March 2004 Accepted 23 March 2004Sirs It is widely accepted that myasthenia gravis MG a T-cell dependent chronic autoimmune disorder is induced by sustained production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junction 1. Tacrolimus FK506 a macrolide immunosuppressant derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis 5 was used in clinical trials 2 11 and also in one open-labeled clinical trial 6.
She underwent thymomectomy in September 1996 followed by cobalt irradiation therapy 48Gy total dose to treat thymoma cells invading the right lung. In January 2001 she was started on tacrolimus 3 mg/day in addition to steroids prednisolone 15 mg/day. Her myasthenic condition was II a according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification 4. By the end of May 2001 laboratory examination showed her blood glucose level 407 mg/dL blood ketone body 753mol/L C peptide 4.3 ng/mL normal > 1.0ng/mL hemoglobin A1c 11.5 % normal < 6 %. Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase antibody and anti-insulinoma-associated protein 2 antibody were negative. She was given subcutaneous injections of insulin maximum total dose 70 U/dayand at this time tacrolimus was discontinued Figure.In September 2001 she was readmitted with arrhythmia caused by radiation-induced cardiomyopathy. Her myasthenic condition was II a. She suddenly developed respiratory distress and dysphagia on 9 September and laboratory findings showed an increase in the titer of the anti-AChR antibody 490 nmol/L. She was on an artificial respirator and having tube feeding.
In midOctober 2001 the addition of azathioprine max 125 mg/day improved her myasthenic condition in parallel with a reduction in the titer of the anti-AChR antibody Figure. Her diabetic condition gradually improved associated with an increase in the titer of C peptide and it could be managed by diet alone Figure. In March 2002 her myasthenic condition was very mild II a without ptosis and the LETTER TO THE EDITORS JO N 1 50 4 Fig. Time course of clinical conditions and laboratory findings11557. Michels M Hohlfeld R Hartung H-P Heininger K Besinger UA Toyka KV 1988 Myasthenia gravis discontinuation of long-term azathioprine. Ann Neurol 24798 8. Tamura K Fujimura T Tsutsumi T Nakamura K Ogawa T Atumaru C Hirano Y Ohara K Ohtsuka K Shimomura K Kobayashi M 1995 Transcriptional inhibition of insulin by FK506 and possible involvement of FK506 binding protein-12 in pancreatic -cell. Transplantation 59 16061613 9. Thomson AW Bonham CA Zeevi A 1995 Mode of action of tacrolimus FK506 molecular and cellular mechanisms. Ther Drug Monit 1758459110. Toyonaga T Kondo T Miyamura N Sekigami T Sonoda K Kodama S Shiramaki A Shirotani T Araki E 2002 Sudden onset of diabetes with ketoacidosis in a patient treated with FK506/tacrolimus. Diabetes Res Clin Practice 561318 11.
Muscle Nerve 27245248T. Konishi MD   Dept. of Neurology Utano National Hospital 8 Ondoyama-cho Narutaki Kyoto 616-8255 Japan Tel. 81-75/461-5121 Fax 81-75/464-0027 E-Mail konishiunh.hosp.go.jpM. Sanada MD Division of Neurology Dept. of Neurology Shiga University of Medical Science Shiga JapanK. Takehana MD Dept. of Cardiology Cardiovascular Center Kansai Medical University Kansai Japantiter of AChR antibody was 35 nmol/L.Tacrolimus a macrolide structurally unrelated to cyclosporine but with a similar mechanism of action 9 has been used for immunosuppressive therapy in patients with a variety of solid organ and other types of transplants. In an open-labeled clinical trial using a low-dose of tacrolimus 3 mg/day about 40 % of patients with steroid-resistant generalized MG improved in the 16 weeks of the trial without serious side effects 6.The sudden onset of diabetes mellitus with ketoacidosis due to a decrease in insulin secretion was reported in a patient who had undergone renal transplant and was receiving tacrolimus treatment 10. The diabetogenic action of tacrolimus on pancreatic -cells was the transcriptional inhibition of insulin 8.
Although the tacrolimus treatment duration was only five months the discontinuation of tacrolimus may be responsible for the myasthenic crisis associated with an increase in the titer ofthe receptor antibody. As reinstitution of the immunosuppressive drug azathioprine improved the myasthenic symptoms 3 7 we added azathioprine to the corticosteroids which successfully improved the symptoms with a marked reduction in the titer of the receptor antibody.This report is the first case of a myasthenic crisis after discontinuation of tacrolimus. It is generally advisable not to stop immunosuppressive medication abruptly but rather by gradual tapering. Successful use of sugammadex for caesarean section in a patient with myasthenia gravis. KEYWORDS Myasthenia gravis Sugammadex PregnancyPALAVRAS-CHAVE Miastenia grave Sugammadex GravidezO uso bem-sucedido de sugamadex para cesariana em paciente com miastenia graveResumo Miastenia grave MG  uma doenca autoimune caracterizada por fraqueza muscular que flutua piorando com o esforco fsico e melhorando com o repouso. O diagnstico de MG  feito aps exame clnico e fsico e confirmado por imunoensaios sricos para medir os nveis de autoanticorpos. MG especialmente quando associada  gravidez  uma doenca de alto risco e de curso imprevisvel.
Successful u myasthenia gravis. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2014 end. http//dx.doi.or 2014 Sociedade Brasileira de direitos reservados. Corresponding author. E-mail mdugoktasyahoo.com U. Goktas.http//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bjane.2014.08.008 0104-0014/ 2014 Sociedade Brasileira de Anestesiologia. Published by Ese of sugammadex for caesarean section in a patient with g/10.1016/j.bjane.2014.08.008Anestesiologia. Publicado por Elsevier Editora Ltda. Todos oslsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.INModelB 2IM n m d w s a t s r dm b t wCA o y d p s  a A o i h n o n o t l t O iDG r d n p ht wm t l l t m pa i m t as i h fCTR12345678ARTICLEJANE-318 No. of Pages 2ntroductionyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disorder affecting early 1 million individuals worldwide.1 It is twice as comon among women as it is among men.2 This autoimmune isease is characterized by muscle weakness that fluctuates orsening with exertion and improving with rest. Diagnois of MG is made following clinical and physical examination nd is confirmed by serum immunoassays to measure autoanibody levels.34 Qi et al.
The Patient had been diagnosed 16 ears ago as MG. She used pyridostigmine 60 mg/day uring 14 years. Physical examination was normal except roximal upper/lower extremity weakness 3/5. Anaestheia was induced with propofol 2 mg/kg and rocuronium 0.5 mg/kg. The endotracheal intubation was easily chieved 150 s after the administration of rocuronium. naesthesia was maintained with sevoflurane 2--2.5% and xygen/air 40--60%. A lively female infant was born. Physcal features were normal weight 3300 g length 55 cm ead circumference 34 cm APGAR score 6/8/10 and did ot see any signs of muscular hypotonisity. MG was not bserved in the newborn. The newborn was admitted to eonatal intensive care unit for surveillance. Duration of the peration was 20 min. Sugammadex was used 2 mg/kg at he end of the surgery. Patient was extubated without probem in 2 min after sugammadex. The patient was transferred o normal ward after postoperative 1 h from recovery unit. n the third postpartal day the patient could be dismissed n good clinical condition.iscussionarcia et al.6 described the first use of sugammadex after apid sequence induction using rocuronium for a caesareanPlease cite this article in press as Soyoral L et al. Successful u myasthenia gravis. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2014 end.
Unfortuately their patient had persistent muscle weakness that revented extubation. They concluded that myasthenia may ave exacerbated by both surgery and the initiation of9PRESS L. Soyoral et al.reatment. But in our case it was extubated successfully ithin 2 min after administration of sugammadex.Nowadays authors recommendation on using sugamadex as the new strategy of muscle relaxant reversal seems o be a safe and reliable option in patients with muscuar and neuromuscular diseases.7 Because the main problem ies in titration of neuromuscular blocking agents as well as he risk of anti-cholinesterase overdose after reversal which ay itself cause excessive muscle weakness and need for ostoperative v. entilation.8Berlit et al.9 concluded that MG especially when associted with pregnancy is a high-risk disease and its course s unpredictable.
interest.eferences. Gilhus NE Owe JF Hoff JM et al. Myasthenia gravis a review of available treatment approaches. Autoimmune Dis. 201110 1--6. end. Ferrero S Esposito F Biamonti M et al. Myasthenia gravis during pregnancy. Expert Rev Neurother. 20088979--88. end. Ferrero S Pretta S Nicoletti A et al. Myasthenia gravis management issues during pregnancy. Eur J Obstet Gynecol. 2005121129--38. end. Buckley C Douek D Newsom-Davis J et al. Mature long-lived CD4 and CD8 T cells are generated by the thymoma in myasthenia gravis. Ann Neurol. 20015064--72. end. Qi QW Wang D Liu JT et al. Management of pregnancy with myasthenia gravis 7 cases report. Zhonghua Fu Chan Ke Za Zhi. 201247241--4 in Chinese. end. Garcia V Diemunsch P Boet S. Use of rocuronium and sugammadex for caesarean delivery in a patient with myasthenia gravis. Int J Obstet Anesth. 201221286--7. end. Schaller SJ Fink H. Sugammadex as a reversal agent for neuromuscular block an evidence-based review. Core Evid. 2013857--67. end. Mundada SD Shah B Atram S. Emergency cesarean section in ase of sugammadex for caesarean section in a patient with g/10.1016/j.bjane.2014.08.008patient of myasthenia gravis is neuraxial anesthesia safe Saudi J Anaesth. 20126430--1. end. Berlit S Tuschy B Spaich S et al.
Case Rep Obstet Gynecol. 20122012736024. Ocular myasthenia gravis treatment successes and failures in patients with long-term follow-up. We previously reported that prednisone reduced the frequency of generalized myasthenia GMG and controlled diplopia without major adverse effects at 2 years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Questions remain as to whether study subjects had longstanding disease biasing results towards a steroid benefit and if prednisone merely delayed GMG onset. Here we performed a record review of a referral neuro-ophthalmology service OMG database for patients who were followed-up for C4 years or until GMG developed. We studied the effect of prednisone on GMG incidence and control of ocular symptoms. Generally patients with diplopia were recommended for prednisone therapy. Most remained on daily 2.510 mg for diplopia control. We compared the results for prednisone-treated and untreated pyridostigmine only patients. Of 87 patients 55 were in the prednisone-treated and 32 were in the untreated groups. GMG developed in 7 13% of the prednisone-treated OR 0.41 95% CI 0.220.76 and in 16 50% of the untreated OR 2.78 95% CI 1.684.60 patients. After OMG onset GMG developed at a mean 5.8 and 0.22 years in prednisone and untreated groups.
For 48 prednisone-treated patients who did not develop GMG OMG treatment failure occurred in 13. Thus prednisone delays the onset of GMG and has sustained benefit in reducing the incidence of GMG and controlling diplopia. Without prednisone GMG develops in 50% of OMG patients typically within 1 year. reduced the frequency of generalized myasthenia GMG and controlled diplopia without major adverse effects at 2 years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Questions remain as to whether study subjects had longstanding disease biasing results towards a steroid benefit and if prednisone merely delayed GMG onset. Here we performed a record review of a referral neuro-ophthalmology service OMG database for patients who were followed-up for C4 years or until GMG developed. We studied the effect of prednisone on GMG incidence and control of ocular symptoms. Generally patients with diplopia were recommended for prednisone therapy. Most remained on daily 2.510 mg for diplopia control. We compared the results for prednisone-treated and untreated pyridostigmine only patients. Of 87 patients 55 were in the prednisone-treated and 32 were in the untreated groups.
After OMG onset GMG developed at a mean 5.8 and 0.22 years in prednisone and untreated groups. Diplopia was present at the last exam in 27% of theprednisone-treated mean 7.2 years and in 57% of the untreated mean 4.6 years OMG patients. For 48 prednisone-treated patients who did not develop GMG OMG treatment failure occurred in 13. Thus prednisone delays the onset of GMG and has sustained benefit in reducing the incidence of GMG and controlling diplopia. Without prednisone GMG develops in 50% of OMG patients typically within 1 year.Keywords Ocular myasthenia gravis Ptosis Diplopia Prednisone. Introduction. The initial symptoms or signs of myasthenia gravis are ptosis or extraocular muscle weakness or ocular misalignment in up to 65% of patients. Approximately 53% of patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG are reported to present clinically apparent generalized disease with 44% developing generalized myasthenia gravis within 2 years 1 2 and most within 1 year 3 4.Ocular myasthenia gravis is bothersome in that it causes visual disability and dysfunction of daily living activities but generalized myasthenia gravis is a potentially lifethreatening illness.
If larger doses of prednisone are used for a short period of time there should be few major side effects even if lower doses are continued over many months. Three observational studies describe that the use of moderatedose followed by low-dose corticosteroids reduces the M. J end. Kupersmith  Neuro-ophthalmology Service Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery Roosevelt Hospital 10th Flr 1000 10th Ave New York NY 10019 USA e-mail mkuperchpnet.org M. J end. Kupersmith Neuro-ophthalmology Service New York Eye and Ear Infirmary New York NY USA M. J end. Kupersmith Neuro-ophthalmology Service Albert Einstein School of Medicine New York NY USAconversion rate to generalized myasthenia gravis to 411% at 2 years 46. Two observational studies reported that a similar corticosteroid regimen restored binocular vision that persisted at 2 years in approximately 70% of patients 5 7.
rointestinal and bone dysfunction 11. Review articles on OMG have questioned whether in prior studies case selection of patients with extended symptom duration and disease burden limited to OMG prior to initiating therapy may have biased the results resulting in too large a benefit of corticosteroid treatment in decreasing the incidence of generalized myasthenia gravis GMG 1214. In addition some authors have questioned whether corticosteroids truly reduce development of GMG or merely delay the onset of deterioration and whether control of diplopia relative to the systemic side effects is warranted 13 15 16. The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether the incidence of developing generalized myasthenia after presentation as OMG can be reduced by treatment with lowdose prednisone therapy after a moderate dose regimen tapered over 1012 weeks or whether this therapy merely postpones conversion to GMG. The secondary purpose is to determine the frequency with which the OMG symptoms and ptosis and ocular muscle limitation are controlled in prednisone-treated patients at a minimum of 4-year followup. We also examined the course and treatment of the cases where OMG was uncontrolled by prednisone.
Methods end. The charts of patients with OMG evaluated by the Neuroophthalmology Service of the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary from 1984 through 2000 and the Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery from 1997 through 2008 were reviewed and the data extracted to fill in an OMG database created in 1997. The study was approved by the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary IRB. Every new and old OMG patient that came to the clinic from 1997 onward had his or her chart data maintained in a systematic matter and all patients were informed of the intention to keep theirdata in an organized confidential database in order to address questions related to the treatment of OMG. Inclusion criteria included age of 4 years or older at the first neuro-ophthalmology examination clinically evident OMG for a minimum of one month no subjective symptoms or clinical findings suggestive of GMG any muscle weakness below the neck or in the facial muscles except the orbicularis oculi. Patients with dysthyroid ophthalmopathy who developed exotropia and gave a positive edrophonium test were included 17.
In cases where there was any question patients had abnormal repetitive stimulation electromyography abductor digiti minimi and trapezius were typically stimulated with a minimum decrement of 10% or abnormal jitter on single fiber extensor digitorum communis was typically stimulated EMG compatible with myasthenia gravis. All patients had contrast-enhanced computed tomography of the chest to look for the presence of a thymoma. The serum was tested in commercial laboratories for fasting blood sugar and acetylcholine receptor AChR binding antibody. Patients had blood studies for thyroid dysfunction unless they were already known to have a history of hypo- or hyperthyroidism.Patients were not randomized for therapy. Patients with diplopia or ptosis that blocked vision and were unresponsive to pyridostigmine except for those who refused or had contraindications were treated called the treated group with prednisone. The other patients including those with an active gastrointestinal ulcer a history of tuberculosis difficult to control diabetes mellitus severe hypertension or congestive heart failure and those that refused treatment made up the untreated group.
The prednisone dose was started at 10 mg daily for two days followed by 20 mg daily for two days. The dose was increased to 5060 mg per day for one week. The daily dose was reduced by to 10 mg per week and in general it took approximately 12 weeks to reach 10 mg per day. The dose was further reduced by 2.5 mg per day each week while clinically titrating the dose to the patients clinical symptoms and findings of OMG. In the treated group pyridostigmine was used indoses aimed at alleviating residual or recurrent diplopia. Untreated patients received pyridostigmine using the maximum tolerated daily divided doses in an attempt to alleviate ptosis and diplopia. In general untreated patients were treated with higher daily doses of pyridostigmine.All of the patients were questioned and examined at each evaluation by MJK for the presence of GMG and any corticosteroid complications during the previous period. At each visit patients were probed for symptoms of fatigue change in activity due to fatigue or weakness shortness of breath change in voice problems swallowing or weakness in daily activities or exercise. The strengths of facial jaw and neck flexion and extension and the extremities with particular attention paid to the proximal muscle groups were evaluated at each visit.
The examination is marked by normal sensory findings normal deep tendon reflexes normal sphincter tone normal muscle bulk and normal muscle tone. At each visit each patient was asked whether he or she had experienced a change in mentation been hospitalized due to infection or uncontrolled diabetes mellitus or hypertension or had suffered a spontaneous symptomatic bone fracture. Baseline and follow-up bone density studies were done in many but not all patients given prednisone treatment. A neuromuscular specialist corroborated whether GMG was present in each patient with possible symptoms or signs.Data analysisIn the data analysis 21 the primary goal was to determine the incidence in the prednisone-treated and untreated groups of GMG over the entire follow-up period and to determine whether prednisone treatment reduced the frequency or merely delayed conversion to GMG. The time of follow-up was the total time to the last exam or to the development of GMG. Baseline factors explored for risk including gender age AChR antibody level and whether the AChR antibody was abnormal were compared between the two treatment groups using the two-tailed t test.
The benefit had to be maintained for at least 1 year at average daily doses of prednisone of 10 mg or less including flare-up periods that required several weeks of higher dosing.We also detailed the treatments and outcomes for those patients who failed prednisone therapy but did not convert to GMG. Prednisone treatment of OMG was defined to be a failure if ptosis interfering with vision or diplopia in either primary or downward gaze did not resolve with prednisone therapy or if more than 10 mg per day was consistently needed for maintenance. Results end. We included 87 patients with OMG in our database who had the requisite follow-up. In the prednisone-treated group there were 35 men and 20 women of mean age 52 years range 1084 years and mean follow-up 7.2 years range 2.520 years. In the untreated group there were 20 men and 12 women of mean age 55 years range 487 years and mean follow up 4.6 years range 0.120 years. The AChR antibody was abnormal in 36% of prednisone-treated patients mean 4.9 nmol/L range 0 68 and in 50% of nonprednisone patients mean 2.9 nmol/ L range 018. Thymoma was diagnosed by computed tomography and confirmed histopathologically in two patients both in the prednisone-treated group. No other OMG patients underwent thymectomy.
Except for a mild difference in having diplopia in either primary or downward gaze there no significant differences were found between the prednisone 96% and untreated groups 84% in terms of background characteristics or baseline features Table 1.Prednisone was begun within six months of the onset of symptoms in 47 90% of patients. Four patients began therapy more than 1 year after the symptoms started. Excluding the initial 12-week prednisone course the patients averaged 6.8 mg daily in year one and 4.8 mg daily for the additional years of prednisone treatment. In general patients remained on some regular daily or alternate-day dose of prednisone for a mean of 40 months quartiles 25%20.5 and 75%65.5 months. This included flare-ups that were treated with prednisone at a starting dose of 25 mg daily and tapered over four weeks. At the last visit six patients 11% were not taking prednisone for at least six months had no signs of OMG and were considered to be in remission.Generalized myasthenia gravis developed in 16 50% of the untreated patients in 7 13% of the prednisonetreated patients in general and in 7 14% of the prednisone-treated patients who started treatment within six months of the onset of OMG symptoms Fig. 1 end.
In contrast no prednisone-treated GMG patient converted prior to 2.5 years from the onset of OMG symptoms mean 5.8 years 2.510.5. For the prednisonetreated patients the odds ratio for developing generalized disease was 0.41 95% CI 0.220.76 and that for the untreated group was 2.78 95% CI 1.684.60. When only patients who were started on prednisone within six months of the onset of OMG were considered the odds ratio became 0.42 95% CI 0.220.80.The level of AChR antibody was not a significant predictor of developing GMG. In the untreated group 60% of patients with abnormal AChR antibody developed GMG compared to 41% without abnormal antibody. In contrast in the prednisone-treated group GMG developed in 16 and 13% for antibody-positive and -negative patients respectively. The risk of developing GMG was mildly greater in those patients with abnormal AChR antibody measurements compared to those with normal levels or negative studies for untreated patients OR 1.50 95% CI 0.703.23and OR 0.70 95% CI 0.361.37 and marginally greater for prednisone-treated patients OR 1.29 95% CI 0.50 3.31 and OR 0.86 95% CI 0.441.68. Absolute age age younger than 40 years and gender did not correlate with the development of GMG.Treatment failure occurred in 13 24% of the prednisone-treated subjects.
Additional immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive agents were only used in patients whose OMG failed prednisone therapy. Of the five patients treated with mycophenolate mofetil 2 g daily for a minimum of 0.6 years in addition to prednisone two had the OMG controlled. However two of those that failed had significant extraocular muscle limitation due to concomitant thyroid ophthalmopathy. Of seven patients treated with azathioprine dose 100250 mg daily adequate to induce a macrocytosis or leukopenia for a minimum of 0.5 years in addition to prednisone four had the OMG controlled. Two subjects failed both therapies.At the last examination of the prednisone-treated group for 35 patients excluding the seven patients who developed GMG or the 13 prednisone treatment failures 33 had full extraocular movements and two had minor underaction of a single lateral rectus. None of the 35 patients had diplopia in primary or downward gaze. Two eyes of two patients had minor ptosis 2 mm. In the untreated group data concerning diplopia at the last exam prior to GMG were available in 28 patients. Diplopia in either primary gaze downward gaze or both was present in 16 58%.
Hyperglycemia requiring a hypoglycemic agent or worsening of prior diabetes mellitus occurred in 10% of patients none of whom required insulin.Table 1 Baseline features of OMG patientsPrednisone-treated group Untreated group P valueGender 20 females 35 males 12 females 20 malesMean age in years 52 SD 18 55 SD 23 0.54 Diplopia in primary or downward gaze 53 96%a 27 84% 0.06Frequency of abnormal AChR antibody 36% 50% 0.09Mean AChR antibody nmol/L 4.9 SD 13.8 2.9 SD 4.3 0.50a In two patients two un. related blind eyes. Discussion. Our current case series of 87 patients with OMG at baseline and who were followed for at least 4 years or until the development of GMG supports the hypothesis that a steroid treatment which does not cause significant systemic complications can significantly delay the onset of OMG and may actually reduce the incidence of it. This effect is independent of whether corticosteroids were beneficial in significantly alleviating OMG symptoms loss of binocularity due to ptosis or diplopia in the two most important directions of gaze or significantly improving extraocular muscle function. It is also surprising that the dose of prednisone typically needed to control ocular symptoms and prevent conversion to GMG was unlikely to cause significant immunosuppression.
Other therapies with significant immunomodulation or immunosuppression appear to reduce deterioration of OMG to GMG. Azathioprine usually administered concomitantly with prednisolone significantly reduces 12% compared to 64% for those without immunosuppressive treatment the development of GMG 22. Though mycophenolate mofetil appears to be a good adjunctive therapy for GMG published reports on controlling OMG or reducing deterioration to GMG have been lacking 23 24. Only one study has been published using mycophenolate in OMG patientsand this was done in combination with prednisone 25. Of 27 patients who remained on the mycophenolate 93% did not develop GMG at 2 years so this regimen appears effective but the role of early treatment with prednisone may account for some of the benefit.Although the current study was not designed to address the role of thymectomy in OMG the two patients with thymoma underwent surgical resection without benefit with respect to the OMG. One patient required prednisone developing OMG findings 3 years after thymectomy and the other had persistent ophthalmoparesis and diplopia despite surgery and later failed prednisone and azathioprine therapy.
However these studies are far from conclusive due to limited documentation of OMG findings and the frequent inclusion of OMG patients who have had the disease for longer than six months and are therefore at low risk of developing GMG.In contrast to our prior report the risk of GMG was only slightly increased in patients with an abnormal acetylcholine receptor antibody level however as previously shown the absolute level was not predictive 4. It appears that having an abnormal AChR antibody is more predictive of early GMG development in patients not treated with prednisone.The optimal therapy for controlling OMG signs and symptoms has not been determined and the administration of corticosteroids to eliminate extraocular muscle limitation and diplopia continues to be controversial 12 13 15 16.
No No42/male 0.1 0.0 2000 1 No Yes30/male 0.4 5.0 200 1 Yes Yes73/female 0.1 21.0 No Yes76/female 0.1 3.0 Yes No30/female 0.1 2.0 2000 0.6 200 0.5 No Yes 71a/female 0.1 5.0 2000 1 No No21/male 0.3 0.0 150 1 No No 42a/male 1.0 2.0 2000 0.65 No Yesa Complicated by thyroid ophthalmopathypatients. The benefit is maintained after 4 years but requires a mean daily dose of approximately 5 mg. For patients that fail corticosteroid treatment secondary therapies to alleviate diplopia or ptosis that is unresponsive to pyridostigmine have shown mixed results. Both azathioprine and mycophenolate showed a benefit in several of these patients who required as long as 1 year of treatment for it to take hold. The patients that responded initially did so to higher doses of prednisone but were considered failures due to the need for high maintenance doses. In contrast no patient that failed to significantly improve while on higher prednisone doses benefited from the secondary delivery of either immunosuppressive.
It appears advantageous to prevent GMG during the first year since the risk of developing GMG decreases when the duration of OMG exceeds 1 year and is even lower after 2 years. One of our patients who required 5 mg of prednisone every three days to prevent severe ophthalmoplegia stopped the medication after 3 years and developed GMG 4 years later. Prednisone treatment has a dual purpose restoring ocular function and reducing deterioration to GMG. We do not know whether low-dose prednisone would be effective once GMG has developed. Without a randomized trial which multiple authors 1316 and the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology have already asked for 12 this observational study appears to provide the only available data and suggests that early intervention with low doses of steroid therapy favorably alters the natural history of this disorder and both delays and reduces the frequency of GMG. However continued corticosteroid therapy appears to be needed in most cases.Acknowledgment This work was financially supported by Alice and Richard Netter the David B. Kriser Foundation and the Michael Fisher Foundation. With interest we read the article by Sugimoto et al.
Initial deterioration was qualitatively and quantitatively defined quantitatively as increase of two or more points on the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living MG-ADL score 1. It was concluded that IVMP can be repeated after initial deterioration during a first cycle and that IVMP may lead to clinical improvement 1. We have the following comments and concerns. The main shortcomings of the study are that groups sizes were small amd that the cohorts investigated were inhomogeneous with regard to several aspects. For example different dosages of IVMP were applied. According to Table 1 the initial deterioration was dose-dependent as 39% respectively 43% of the initial deterioration group but only 32% respectively 30% of the no initial deterioration group received the high dosage. On the contrary 23% respectively 19% of the initial deterioration group but 28% respectively 30% in the no initial deterioration group received the low dosage 1. Though initital deterioration was defined qualitatively and quantitatively it remains unclear over which period of time the deterioration could take place.
In the initital deterioration group n  26 respectively 21 there was a strong preponderance of females 206 respectively 174 F/M 1. It should be discussed if females reacted differentially to IVMP compared to male and if this variable rection is attributable to random patient selection or differences in the endocrine constitution. The authors should explain why three double sero-negative patients were included in the evaluation. Double sero-negative patients may be false positive unless single-fiber electromyography SF-EMG clearly demonstates an increased jitter 2. Unfortunatley no SF-EMG results were provided for any of these three patients. Since the edrophonium test as well as repetitive nerve stimulation may be false positive the three patients should be excluded from the evaluation. The authors should also explain why only 16/26 respectively 19/25 in the qualitative group and 16/21 respectively 22/30 in the quantitative group received acetyl-cholin-esterase inhibitors ACEI. We should know if this was due to the fact that some patients developed side effects or did not tolerate the drug due to other reasons. Were ACEI particularly ineffective in patients with anti-MUSK antibodies as has been previously reported 3.
It is also striking that in the qualitative evaluation 19% in the initial deterioration group vs. 28% in the no initial deterioration group had rceived prednisolone prior to the administration of IVMP. It is conceivable that those used to steroids experienced less strong adverse reactions to IVMP as compared to those who were not on steroids before. In the result section the authors mention that patients classified as MGFA V were excluded from the evaluation 1. However in Table 1 two patients with MGFA V are listed 1. The atuhors should explain this discrepancy. Overall this interesting and usefull study carries a number of discrepancies and shortcomings which should be addressed before final conclusions can be drawn. Definitively group comparison should be carried out on homogenous cohorts more infomraiton about the dosage of ACEI are required and serogenative patients should be excluded. Inconsistenices need to be solved before interpreting the results. Contents lists available at ScienceDirectJournal of the Neurological Sciencesjournal homepage www.elsevier.com/locate/jnsLetter to the EditorInitial deterioration upon intravenous methyl-prednisolon in myasthenia is multifactorialA R T I C L E I N F O. Keywords end.
Letter to the Editor. With interest we read the article by Sugimoto et al. about a retrospective study on the initial deterioration of 51 patients with myasthenia gravis receiving 7503000 mg/cycle intravenous methyl-prednisolone IVMP 1. Initial deterioration was qualitatively and quantitatively defined quantitatively as increase of two or more points on the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living MG-ADL score 1. It was concluded that IVMP can be repeated after initial deterioration during a first cycle and that IVMP may lead to clinical improvement 1. We have the following comments and concerns.The main shortcomings of the study are that groups sizes were small amd that the cohorts investigated were inhomogeneous with regard to several aspects. For example different dosages of IVMP were applied. According to Table 1 the initial deterioration was dose-dependent as 39% respectively 43% of the initial deterioration group but only 32% respectively 30% of the no initial deterioration group received the high dosage.
Was this within one day from one day to the next day or between first and last IVMP application According to the results section initial deterioration occurred 0 to 4 days after IVMP application.In the initital deterioration group n  26 respectively 21 there was a strong preponderance of females 206 respectively 174 F/M 1. It should be discussed if females reacted differentially to IVMP compared to male and if this variable rection is attributable to random patient selection or differences in the endocrine constitution.The authors should explain why three double sero-negative patients were included in the evaluation. Double sero-negative patients may be false positive unless single-fiber electromyography SF-EMG clearly demonstates an increased jitter 2. Unfortunatley no SF-EMG results were provided for any of these three patients. Since the edrophonium test as well as repetitive nerve stimulation may be false positive thethree patients should be excluded from the evaluation. The authors should also explain why only 16/26 respectively 19/25 in the qualitative group and 16/21 respectively 22/30 in the quantitative group received acetyl-cholin-esterase inhibitors ACEI.
Were ACEI particularly ineffective in patients with anti-MUSK antibodies as has been previously reported 3.In this regard we should know if the dosage of ACEI was different between those with initial deterioration and those without since it is conceivable that particularly those with too low dosage of ACEI reacted with initial deterioration.It is also striking that in the qualitative evaluation 19% in the initial deterioration group vs. 28% in the no initial deterioration group had rceived prednisolone prior to the administration of IVMP. It is conceivable that those used to steroids experienced less strong adverse reactions to IVMP as compared to those who were not on steroids before.In the result section the authors mention that patients classified as MGFA V were excluded from the evaluation 1. However in Table 1 two patients with MGFA V are listed 1. The atuhors should explain this discrepancy.Overall this interesting and usefull study carries a number of discrepancies and shortcomings which should be addressed before final conclusions can be drawn. Definitively group comparison should be carried out on homogenous cohorts more infomraiton about the dosage of ACEI are required and serogenative patients should be excluded.
Funding end. No funding was received. Author contribution. JF design literature search discussion first draft FAS ACF CAS literature search discussion critical comments.https//doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2020.116812 Received 13 March 2020 Accepted 27 March 2020Available online 31 March 2020 0022-510X/  2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.T. Declaration of Competing Interest. There are no conflicts of interest. All authors contributed equally. The effect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. Fifty percent of ocular myasthenia gravis OMG patients will progress to generalized myasthenia 90% within 3 years from the onset of ocular symptoms. This study was performed to determine whether treatment with oral prednisone initiated and completed within 2 years from the onset of ocular symptoms would affect the progression of ocular myasthenia to generalized myasthenia gravis GMG. Fifty-six patients were included in this review with 27 patients in the prednisone-treated group and 29 patients in the untreated group. The treated group was initiated on 60 mg of prednisone daily with a slow taper over 36 months.
Our results suggest that the early use of steroids may decrease progression of ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. The decision to use steroids should be considered early in the course of patients diagnosed with ocular myasthenia gravis. This study should be considered preliminary and a prospective trial is warranted to confirm our observations. D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Fifty percent of ocular myasthenia gravis OMG patients will progress to generalized myasthenia 90% within 3 years from the onset of ocular symptoms. This study was performed to determine whether treatment with oral prednisone initiated and completed within 2 years from the onset of ocular symptoms would affect the progression of ocular myasthenia to generalized myasthenia gravis GMG. Fifty-six patients were included in this review with 27 patients in the prednisone-treated group and 29 patients in the untreated group. The treated group was initiated on 60 mg of prednisone daily with a slow taper over 36 months. At 2 years significantly fewer patients in the treated group 3 of 27 progressed to generalized myasthenia when compared to the untreated group 10 of 29 v2 p  0.04. Our results suggest that the early use of steroids may decrease progression of ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis.
This study should be considered preliminary and a prospective trial is warranted to confirm our observations. D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Ocular Prednisone Immune1. Introduction There have been reports of a lower rate of OMGApproximately 50% of all acquired myasthenia gravis patients present with ocular symptoms of ptosis and/or diplopia with no clinical evidence of bulbar respiratory or limb muscle weakness 16. Of those patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG about 5060% will subsequently develop generalized myasthenia gravis GMG with 80% progressing within the first year and 90% within 3 years 157. About 10% will have episodes of spontaneous remission and be symptom-free 15. Serum acetylcholine receptor antibodies positive in about 3550% in OMG abnormal results on repetitive nerve stimulation single-fiber electromyography or abnormal curare sensitivity is not predictive of those patients who are more likely to develop generalized myasthenia gravis 14811.0022-510X/ - see front matter D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.jns.2003.08.017 Corresponding author. Tel. 1-203-688-2495 fax 1-203-688-3109.E-mail address Huned.PatwaYale.Edu H.S. Patwa.progressing to GMG in patients who received immunomodulating therapy 812.
Grob et al. 5 reported a higher incidence of remission and improvement in his 202 patients with ocular myasthenia gravis treated with oral steroids between the years of 1966 and 1985. Kupersmith et al. 12 found that prednisone was associated with a reduced frequency of patients with OMG progressing to GMG. Although there were no internal controls these results were better than the generally accepted 5060% of OMG progressing to GMG found in the literature 156. Kupersmith et al. 13 in a subsequent study showed that the rate of development of GMG was reduced from 36% in the group not treated with prednisone to 7% in the group treated with prednisone.We retrospectively evaluated a group of patients with ocular myasthenia to determine if those that were treated early with prednisone had a lower proportion that progressed to generalized myasthenia gravis compared tothose that were treated only with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.Three of 27 11% treated patients progressed . to generalized myasthenia at 2 years. Ten of 29 34% untreated patients progressed to generalized myasthenia at 2 years. Chi-squared analysis showed a statistically significant difference between treatment and no treatment on the progression of ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis  p 0.04. 2 end. Methods end.
The diagnosis of OMG was determined primarily on clinical evaluation and confirmatory diagnostic tests that included one or more of the following electromyography antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titers edrophonium test and ice and sleep test. The minimum duration of follow-up was 24 months. An experienced neurologist diagnosed all GMG patients. All OMG patients included in the study had signs or symptoms of weakness limited to the extraocular muscles or levator palpebrae superioris for at least a period of 3 months from the onset of the disease. Patients were excluded from the study if they were 16 years of age or younger had a thymoma or underwent a thymectomy.Treatment with pyridostigmine was initiated in all patients at the time of diagnosis. Oral prednisone was offered to all patients who were not controlled with pyridostigmine. The treating physicians closely monitored all patients started on prednisone for any signs of rapidly progressive weakness or respiratory difficulties.Patients were included in the prednisone-treated group PT if they received and completed at least a 3-month course of high-dose oral prednisone within 2 years from the onset of ocular signs or symptoms.
Most patients were maintained on low-dose prednisone throughout the study. The remainder of patients discontinued prednisone. This is consistent with a recent publication 13. Patients who did not satisfy this criteria were included in the untreated group NPT. Proximal muscle weakness dysphagia dysarthria dysphonia and respiratory difficulty were all considered signs of generalized myasthenia gravis. The endpoint for the prednisone-treated and untreated groups was progression to generalized myasthenia gravis.Baseline mean age of the treated and untreated groups was analyzed using a two-tailed t test. Chi-squared analysis v2 was used to evaluate the statistical significance betweenthe prednisone-treated and untreated groups 2 years after the onset of OMG. 3 end. Results end. One hundred thirty-six charts of patients diagnosed with myasthenia gravis were identified from the database. Fiftysix patients met the inclusion criteria. The mean age of the entire patient population included in the study was 53 years. The mean age of all patients in the PT group was 55.4 years n  27 and 50.9 years in the NPT group n  29. The mean age of patients in the PT group who remained at OMG was 54.6 years and those that progressed to GMG was 62 years.
No significant differences were noted in the baseline characteristics of the two groups Table 1. The majority of patients in the treated group were on low-dose 2.510 mg prednisone at 2 years. In the prednisone-treated group no patient developed diabetes mellitus hypertension compression fractures gastric/ duodenal ulcer or infection. There were reports of mild peripheral edema and weight gain in a small number of patients in the treated group.Twenty-nine patients did not receive a 3-month course of oral prednisone within 2 years from the onset of their ocular signs or symptoms and were included in the NPT group of which 10 34% developed symptoms of generalized myasthenia gravis at 2 years. Twenty-seven patients were in the PT group with 3 of 27 11% developing symptoms of generalized myasthenia gravis at 2 years. Nineteen of 29 63% patients in the NPT group and 24 of 27 89% in the PT group remained at OMG at 2 years.A chi-squared analysis showed a statistically significant difference between the PT and NPT groups in the proportion that progressed from ocular myasthenia to generalized myasthenia at 2 years v2 p  0.04 Table 2. 4 end. Discussion. This study was done to see if oral prednisone affects the progression of OMG to generalized myasthenia gravis.
In interpreting the significance of our findings one needs to consider the mechanism by which prednisone decreases the progression from OMG to GMG. While the exact action of prednisone as an immunomodulating agent is not known it is possible that corticosteroids may delay the onset of GMG without altering the underlying immunopathology. The majority of patients with myasthenia gravis require ongoing immunosuppression with either corticosteroids or other medications that suppress the immune system. This suggests that prednisone may not permanently change the immune system but may well play an important role early in the disease course which may prevent the patient from developing GMG. Further study of the actions of corticosteroids may help to clarify this issue in the future.Selection bias is a potential problem in any retrospective study. We found in our untreated patients who served as internal controls that 34% went on to develop generalized myasthenia gravis at 2 years which is in agreement with 41% as reported in the literature 1.The decision to use steroids in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis is controversial 14.
The risks and benefits of prednisone use need to be carefully considered in all patients. Benefits of FK506 tacrolimus for residual cyclosporin- and prednisone-resistant myasthenia gravis one-year follow-up of an open-label study. acrolimus f nd 8 ng/mL. T ravis score f mission 11 w proach after u . acrolimus f nd 8 ng/mL. T ravis score f mission 11 w proach after u K1u  t m p m a tfis a ss as comiated aenia ients urs in not to the d/or reatis the for0 dThirteen patients with myasthenia gravis unresponsive to prednisone and cyclosporin after thymectomy received KF506 t or 12 months at starting doses of 0.1 mg/kg per day b.i.d. and then adjusted to achieve plasma concentrations between 7 a he doses of prednisone were progressively reduced and finally discontinued. Anti-acetylcholine antibodies and myasthenia g or disease severity decreased significantly and muscular strength increased by 37%. All patients achieved pharmacological re ere asymptomatic and two had minimal weakness of eyelid closure. Tacrolimus was well tolerated and appears a suitable ap nsuccessful treatment with conventional immunosuppressants in patients with disabling myasthenia. 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.eywordsTacrolimus Myasthenia gravis Prednisone Cyclosporin.
Its current treatment includes hymectomy as an early consideration and several imunosuppressive agents such as corticosteroids azathiorine and cyclosporin. Although immunosuppressive regiens are very effective important issues related to the mangement of patients with generalized uncontrollable myashenic symptoms or serious side effects of long-term steroid Corresponding author. Tel. 34 93 2746000x6587 ax 34 93 2746224. E-mail addressesponsetihg.vhebron.es 5012jpbcomb.es J.M. Ponseti.treatment remained unanswered. Tacrolimus FK506 macrolide molecule of the same immunosuppressant cla cyclosporin and has a potent immunosuppressive. The pound which suppresses interleukin-2 production assoc with T cell activation inhibits differentiation and prolifer tion of cytotoxic T cells. Successful treatment of myasth gravis with tacrolimus has been recently reported in pat with intractable myasthenia14. Based on these enco aging initial results we started treatment with tacrolimu patients with residual myasthenia gravis in whom it was possible to reduce the doses of prednisone and/or due occurrence of important side effects of cyclosporin an side effects of prednisone. Results after 12 months of t ment are here presented.
All rights reserved. oi10.1016/j.clineuro.2004.07.013. 2 end. Patients and methods. Six men and nine women with a mean of 45.6 years S.D. 14.6 range 2872 gave written consent to participate in a prospective open-label study. The study protocol was approved by the local institutional review board and authorised by the Spanish health authorities AEM protocol 02-0081 code MG/601200-T. All patients had undergone transsternal extended thymectomy at least in the previous 3 years and were under treatment with prednisone mean dose 33.1 mg/day range 1060 and cyclosporin 23 mg/kg per day plasma levels 80120 ng/mL. Histological findings included hyperplasia of the thymus in seven patients encapsulated thymoma Masaoka stage I in three and invasive thymoma in five Masaoka stage III 4 stage IVa 1. According to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification5 all patients had muscle weakness affecting other than ocular muscles class IIIa moderate weakness predominantly affecting limb axial muscles or both 2 patients class IIIb moderate weakness predominantly affecting oropharyngeal respiratory muscles or both 10 patients and class IVb severe weakness predominantly affecting oropharyngeal respiratory muscles or both 3 patients.
M I i the p e red term c sity h erch lood uT C vis QM th tacP G scone nths1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 1 1 1R pha ontinues to r ged.Patients were switched from cyclosporin to tacrolimus FK506 Prograf Fujisawa S.A. Madrid Spain starting at doses of 0.1 mg/kg per day b.i.d. and then adjusted to achieve plasma drug concentrations between 7 and 8 ng/mL EMIT 2000 Dade Behring Milton Keyes UK The dose of prednisone was intended to be reduced according to response to tacrolimus. We assessed patients at baseline and at 3 7 15 and 30 days and 3 6 9 and 12 months after beginning FK596 administration. Determination of AChR antibodies AChR-Ab RIA kit RSR Ltd. Cardiff UK a test to evaluate muscular strength TEMS quantitative MG score for disease severity QMG score5 clinical classification of therapeutic response according to Osserman6 and MGFA postintervention status5 were assessed at each visit. Pharmacological remission was defined as the absence of signs and symptoms of myasthenia under an immunosuppressive regimen and without anticholinesterase medication. It is accepted that a patient with pharmacological remission may occasionally have minimal weakness of eyelid closure at any time of the day or the week.
The disappearance of steroid-related side effects when the doses of prednisone were reduced or withdrawn was recorded.Data were analyzed with the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. S3pate i riter atient q omp fhenia that is severe skeletal and bulbar involvement b rises drug response less than satisfactory in all pat GFA postintervention status5 showed improvement  n six patients and unchanged U in nine. In none of atients the dose of prednisone or cyclosporin could b uced. All patients suffered from adverse effects of longorticosteroid and cyclosporin treatment including obe ypertrichosis gingival enlargement hypertension hyp olesterolemia and renal insufficiency with increased b rea nitrogen and serum creatinine concentrations.able 1 hanges in muscle strength according to quantitative myasthenia graatient Age years Sex Pathology thymus QMBaseli31 F Hyperplasia 12/I 28 F Hyperplasia 21/I 43 F Thymoma invasive 28/U 39 M Thymoma invasive 19/I 68 F Thymoma invasive 2.
hs 12 mo0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 4/MM-1 4/MM-1 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 20/I 16/I 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 3/MM-1 2/MM-1 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 9/I 6/I 3/MM-1 4/MM-1 1/PRb 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 3/MM-1 1/PRb 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PR 0/PRrmacological remission MM-1 minimal manifestations the patient ctatistical significance was set atP < 0.05. ResultsOf the 15 patients who gave written consent to partici n the study 2 were excluded. In one patient inclusion c ia were not met at baseline assessment and another p uit through his own decision. Therefore 13 patients c leted the study. As shown inTable 1 after 12 months o. 4 end. Discussion. tacrolimus in organ transplant recipients to reduce severe gingival enlargement induced by the administration of cyclosporin9.The experience with the use of tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis is limited. Yoshikawa et al.1 treated two patients suffering from intractable myasthenia gravis and both patients showed significant improvement of myasthenic signs accompanied by suppressed serum AchR antibodies.
In this case the coexistence of hepatitis C and type 2 diabetes contraindicated the use of steroids and azathioprine and cyclosporine although effective had induced renal failure. In 16 patients with steroid-resistant generalized myasthenia gravis treatment with tacrolimus for 16 weeks was accompanied by significant improvement of myasthenic signs3. Wakata et al.4 studied the therapeutic effect of tacrolimus given for 16 weeks and noted improvement in 7 of 13 myasthenic patients on the clinical muscle test. Two other patients with relapsing ocular symptoms improved. The present results are consistent with data of these aforementioned studies and add evidence to the benefits of including tacrolimus in the therapeutic armamentarium of myasthenia gravis.CAedi al i d the p studyexecution and wrote the paper. J end. Azem and J.M. Fort participated actively in the care of myasthenic patients did the statistical analysis and approved the final draft. A end. Codina reviewed the design of the study participated in study execution reviewed patients data and approved the final version. J.B end. Montoro participated in study execution reviewed the report drafts and approved the final version. M end.
All authors had access to all data in the study and held final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication. Very late onset of myasthenia gravis case report and brief review of the literature. Myasthenia gravis MG is traditionally considered a disease of younger women and older men 1 presenting a bimodal age distribution 30 and 50 years old. Recent epidemiological studies suggest an increased incidence of MG in older individuals regardless of gender 25. The definition of late-onset myasthenia gravis LOMG differs according to the studies with different age cut-offs most cited include 50 65 and 75 years. We report the case of a 93-year-old woman that presented several times to the emergency room ER with a 2-month history of generalized weakness bilateral ptosis dysarthria and hypophonia. Additional symptoms included diplopia on prolonged reading fatigue on chewing difficulty swallowing solids and neck pain. Although initially her symptoms had a fluctuating pattern with marked worsening in the afternoon with disease progression they were constant with mild variability.
On neurological examination she presented with bilateral asymmetric eyelid ptosis diplopia on horizontal eye movements with a limitation of ocular movements hypophonia fatigable dysarthria and tetraparesis muscular strength grade 4/5Medical Research Council. Due to clinical suspicion of MG she was started on pyridostigmine 180 mg resulting in marked clinical improvement. Laboratory studies revealed increased levels of anti-acetylcholine receptors antibodies anti-AchRs Ab with normal levels of muscle enzymes CK and normal thyroid function. Electromyography showed a myopathy pattern and repetitive nerve stimulation RNS revealed a decrement over 10% on hand muscles trapezius and facial muscles. Spirometry showed a restrictive pattern. Chestabdomenpelvis CT did not show any signs of malignancy. Use of iodinated contrast CT resulted in acute decline in respiratory function requiring high flow oxygen therapy. Further increases in the dose of pyridostigmine 240 mg/day and the start of systemic glucocorticoids prednisolone 60 mg/day improved the clinical status of the patient. There was a progressive improvement of generalized weakness and dysphagia with complete resolution of ptosis dysarthria and dysphonia.
Most of these are case reports and retrospective case series. After a comprehensive search we selected five studies consisting of a retrospective analysis of the main features of LOMG patients Table 1. The review in the literature reveals a scarce number of cases of MG beginning after age 85 and only anecdotal cases with onset after 90 years 25. We report the case of a 93-year-old female patient presenting with generalized muscle weakness dysphagia diplopia and bilateral palpebral ptosis with anti-AchRs and RNS studies compatible with a myasthenia gravis. The introduction of targeted therapy resulted in significant clinical improvement. Despite typical clinical presentation there was a 2-month delay in the diagnosis. Age-associated changes multimorbidity and the possibility of an alternate diagnosis are possible explanations for the delay in diagnosis. Recognition of LOMG is essential because of its diagnostic and therapeutic implications in the elderly population. Comparing LOMG with early-onset MG it appears that LOMG has a male predominance a lower  Renato Oliveira renato.silva.oliveirahospitaldaluz.pt.
0 and 50years old. Recent epidemiological studies suggest an increased incidence of MG in older individuals regardless of gender 25. The definition of late-onset myasthenia gravis LOMG differs according to the studies with different age cut-offs most cited include 50 65 and 75years.We report the case of a 93-year-old woman that presented several times to the emergency room ER with a 2-month history of generalized weakness bilateral ptosis dysarthria and hypophonia. Additional symptoms included diplopia on prolonged reading fatigue on chewing difficulty swallowing solids and neck pain. Although initially her symptoms had a fluctuating pattern with marked worsening in the afternoon with disease progression they were constant with mild variability. In the ER visits she was always discharged home after performing extensive laboratory studies and imaging studies chest X-ray and chest computed tomography CT head CT which did not show any relevant findings. On neurological examination she presented with bilateral asymmetric eyelid ptosis diplopia on horizontal eye movements with a limitation of ocular movements hypophonia fatigable dysarthria and tetraparesis muscular strength grade 4/5Medical Research Council.
Laboratory studies revealedincreased levels of anti-acetylcholine receptors antibodies anti-AchRs Ab with normal levels of muscle enzymes CK and normal thyroid function. Electromyography showed a myopathy pattern and repetitive nerve stimulation RNS revealed a decrement over 10% on hand muscles trapezius and facial muscles. Spirometry showed a restrictive pattern. Chestabdomenpelvis CT did not show any signs of malignancy. Use of iodinated contrast CT resulted in acute decline in respiratory function requiring high flow oxygen therapy. Further increases in the dose of pyridostigmine 240mg/day and the start of systemic glucocorticoids prednisolone 60mg/day improved the clinical status of the patient. There was a progressive improvement of generalized weakness and dysphagia with complete resolution of ptosis dysarthria and dysphonia.We searched Pubmed and Cochrane for late-onset myasthenia gravis showing a few studies addressing myasthenia gravis in the elderly. Most of these are case reports and retrospective case series.
We report the case of a 93-year-old female patient presenting with generalized muscle weakness dysphagia diplopia and bilateral palpebral ptosis with anti-AchRs and RNS studies compatible with a myasthenia gravis. The introduction of targeted therapy resulted in significant clinical improvement. Despite typical clinical presentation there was a 2-month delay in the diagnosis. Age-associated changes multimorbidity and the possibility of an alternate diagnosis are possible explanations for the delay in diagnosis. Recognition of LOMG is essential because of its diagnostic and therapeutic implications in the elderly population. Comparing LOMG with early-onset MG it appears that LOMG has a male predominance a lower  Renato Oliveira renato.silva.oliveirahospitaldaluz.pt 1 Department ofNeurology Hospital da Luz-Lisboa Avenida Lusada 100 1500-650Lisboa Portugal 2 Chronic Diseases Research Center NOVA Medical School Universidade Nova de Lisboa Lisboa Portugal3 Department ofInternal Medicine Hospital da Luz Lisboa Lisboa PortugalActa Neurologica Belgica1 3incidence of thymic hyperplasia and no association with the HLAB8D35 h. aplotype 3.
Low serum vitamin D levels in patients with myasthenia gravis. Contents lists available at ScienceDirectJournal of Clinical Neurosciencejournal homepage www.elsevier .com/ locate/ jocnShort communicationLow serum vitamin D levels in patients with myasthenia gravishttps//doi.org/10.1016/j.jocn.2018.01.047 0967-5868/ 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd. Corresponding author at Department of Neurology Jeju National University School of Medicine 1 Ara 1-dong Jeju-si Jeju 63243 Republic of Korea.E-mail address neurokangjejunu.ac.kr S.-Y. Kang.Please cite this article in press as Kang S-Y et al. Low serum vitamin D levels in patients with myasthenia gravis. J Clin Neurosci 2018 https//d 10.1016/j.jocn.2018.01.047Sa-Yoon Kang  Ji-Hoon Kang Jay Chol Choi Sook Keun Song Jung-Hwan Oh Department of Neurology Jeju National University School of Medicine Jeju Republic of Koreaa r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c tArticle history Received 1 August 2017 Accepted 8 January 2018 Available online xxxxKeywords 25OHD Autoimmunity Myasthenia gravis Muscle Vitamin DMyasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disease. Vitamin D has important roles both in the autoimmune response and in skeletal muscles.
MG patients were classified by disease stage age of onset and treatment status whether or not to taking immunosuppressive agents. MG patients had lower plasma 25OHD levels mean 18.8  8.4 ng/mL than healthy controls 26.3  6.1 ng/mL p < .05. 125OH2D levels showed slightly high in MG patients than healthy controls but had no significant difference between two groups. In addition no significant differences were observed between two groups divided by clinical characteristics. Serum 25OHD levels significantly lower in patients with MG compared with healthy controls. We recommend monitoring of vitamin D status in patients with MG to avoid direct negative effects on the muscles or autoimmune response.2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease generally mediated by anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR autoantibodies. The pathogenic role of anti-AChR antibodies in MG has been clearly shown and autoantibody response is T cell dependent.
The immune-regulatory effect of vitamin D is known to inhibit effector T cells directly and also induce Treg to decrease the production of inflammatory cytokines. Both vitamin D and Treg might be critical for T cell regulation 34. Previous studies have shown that vitamin D levels are low in patients with autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis 57. However there are few studies on vitamin D status in autoimmune neuromuscular diseases.The aims of this study were to evaluate serum levels of 125 OH2D and 25OHD in patients with MG and healthy controlsand the association of vitamin D levels with clinical severity and treatment status. 2 end. Methods end. end. 2.1 end. Subjects end. We reviewed data from the MG registry of Jeju National University Hospital and selected MG patients without taking vitamin D supplementation. We identified 34 patients and 9 patients refused to participate in the study. A total of 25 patients were ultimately enrolled. Diagnostic criteria of MG included clinical muscle fatigue and decremental response on repetitive nerve stimulation test in conjunction with the presence of AChR antibodies. We only enrolled MG patients with anti-AChR antibodies AChR-MG.
MG patients were classified by disease stage ocular or generalized according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America clinical classification age of onset early or late onset >50 years and treatment status whether or not to taking immunosuppressive agents. In addition the MG composite MGC scale was assessed to evaluate the disease severity. All subjects gave their written informed consent prior to participation in the study which was approved by the Ethics Committee of Jeju National University Hospital.oi.org/. 2.2 end. Measurement of 125OH2D and 25OHD. Serum samples for vitamin D measurements were obtained from one blood sample per individual and all samples were collected between January 1 and February 28 2015. 125OH2D and 25OHD levels were measured with chemiluminescence microparticle immunoassay in our hospital. The normal range of 125OH2D value was between 19.60 and 54.30 ng/mL. 25OHD levels <10 ng/mL 10 to 40 ng/mL and >100 ng/mL were defined as insufficiency sufficiency and toxicity respectively. 2.3 end. Statistical analysis. All data are expressed as mean  standard deviation SD. Means of the patient group and healthy control group were compared by the non-parametric Mann-Whitney test U test.
All statistical analyses were conducted using SPSS version 18 SPSS Inc. Chicago USA and the level of significance was defined as a p value of <.05. 3 end. Results end. end. 3.1 end. Demographic and clinical characteristics. Twenty-five patients mean age 56.0  14.5 years femalemale  1312 with AChR antibodies and forty healthy controls mean age 56.2  12.2 years were included in this study. No significant differences were observed in age and gender between two groups. According to the MGFA clinical classification 25 patients with MG were divided ocular 9 patients and generalized 16 patients MG. The number of patients in early and late onset MG was 15 and 10 respectively. MGC score ranged from 0 to 11 with a mean value of 2.8. Ten patients had only acetylcholine esterase inhibitors with a daily dose ranging from 180 mg to 480 mg. The remaining patients had immunosuppressive agents of which 9 patients had corticosteroid treatment with a dose ranging from 5 mg to 25 mg. Among the patients with corticosteroid therapy 2 patients additionally had azathioprine and 1 patient had tacrolimus. Four patients had only tacrolimus and 2 patients had only azathioprine Table 1. 3.2 end. Comparison of serum 125OH2D and 25OHD levels between. end. MG patients and healthy controls.
Values are presented as the mean  standard deviation.Please cite this article in press as Kang S-Y et al. Low serum vitamin D levels 10.1016/j.jocn.2018.01.047in the healthy controls mean 26.3  6.1 ng/mL range 19.4 37.4 p < .001. 125OH2D levels showed slightly high in AChRMG patients mean 46.4  21.9 ng/mL range 14.091.6 than healthy controls mean 42.1  7.0 ng/mL range 28.449.6 but had no significant difference between two groups. Five patients 20% showed insufficient levels of 25OHD but all healthy controls had sufficient 25OHD levels Fig. 1 end. Among 5 patients having insufficient 25OHD levels four had immunosuppressive agents. 3.3 end. Association between vitamin D and clinical severity and treatment status. In AChR-MG patients levels of 125OH2D did not significantly differ between ocular mean 50.9  28.7 ng/mL and generalized MG mean 48.6  25.7 ng/mL. Similarly levels of 25OHD did not differ between two groups ocular 17.2  4.9 ng/mL generalized 19.8  10.1 ng/mL. There is no significant difference in vitamin D levels between early and late onset MG patients. In addition levels of 125OH2D and 25OHD did not significantly differ between AChR-MG patients under immunosuppressive therapy and taking anti-cholinesterase only Table 2.
2 q  0.1439 p  .362. 4 end. Discussion. Vitamin D has been shown to exert a multitude of effects on the autoimmune systems and its deficiency is increasingly associated with a wide range of immune-mediated disorders. However there are few studies about association of vitamin D in autoimmune neuromuscular disorders. MG is a prototypic autoimmune disease and autoantibodies to the AChR are present in approximately 80% of patients. Various peripheral immunomodulatory mechanisms including suppression of autoreactive clones by regulatory T cells Treg normally eliminate autoreactive cells. Treg is essential for self-tolerance and defects in Treg can cause experimental autoimmunity 8. Functional defects of Treg have been reported inin patients with myasthenia gravis. J Clin Neurosci 2018 https//doi.org/patients with autoimmune disorders 910. The immuneregulatory effect of vitamin D is mediated by increasing the amount of Treg populations. Vitamin D also had the capacity to inhibit T-cell proliferation 1112. Experimental studies have demonstrated the administration of nave CD4CD25 Treg to AChR-immunized animals prevents experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis 13.
A pilot study showed that 25OHD levels were significantly lower in patients with MG than healthy controls as well as beneficial effects on fatigue score in patients with MG after vitamin D supplementation 14. However further studies are needed to prove the potential protective effect of vitamin D in MG. In addition one study revealed higher 25OHD levels in patients with MG than healthy controls and the other study showed 25OHD levels were below the expected normal lower limit in both patients with MG and healthy controls without a significant difference between groups 1516. The latter study demonstrated the dysfunctional state of CD4CD25 cells as Treg in patients with AChR-MG and suggested vitamin D could be utilized to modulate Treg-related suppression capacity in AChR-MG. However the relationship of vitamin D and Treg remains to be elucidated in MG.Our study showed 25OHD levels were significantly lower in patients with AChR-MG compared with healthy controls but 125 OH2D did not significantly differ between two groups. These results are consistent with previous study 14. Although four patients taking immunosuppressive agents had insufficient levelsPlease cite this article in press as Kang S-Y et al.
As many patients with MG are taking corticosteroid it seems reasonable to evaluate the vitamin D status in order to reduce the risk of osteoporosis. In addition no correlation was observed between vitamin D levels and clinical severity and onset of age. Although it is known that MGC scale is a valid instrument for measuring clinical status of patients with MG 25OHD levels did not correlate with myasthenic weakness measured by MGC score.Vitamin D exerts its biological function not only by influencing cellular processes directly but also by influencing gene expression via the vitamin D receptor. Vitamin D receptor expression was noted in the CNS Schwann cells muscles and peripheral neurons 17. Previous studies have revealed the role of vitamin D in several neurological disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis Alzheimers disease Parkinsons disease and stroke 71821. However study about a potential role of vitamin D in autoimmune neuromuscular disorders is lacking. The timing of vitamin D deficiency and its effects on disease risk the tissuespecific consequences of vitamin D deficiency on gene expression and the regional influence of vitamin D status in neurological disorders are key issues to be addressed.
First of all we included a relatively small number of patients. We only enrolled the patients with AChR-MG and excluded the patients already taking vitamin D supplementation. In addition we only assessed the patients at a single hospital even though AChR-MG is rare. There is a possibility that our results may not represent all MG patients in Korea. Finally we did not assess the lifestyle and body mass index affecting vitamin D levels.In conclusion serum vitamin D levels were lower in AChR-MG patients compared with age- and sex-matched healthy controls and we recommend the monitoring of vitamin D levels in patients with AChR-MG. However our study demonstrated that vitamin D may not have correlation with clinical severity measured by MGC score and treatment status. Although we did not evaluate the clinical effects of vitamin D supplementation further prospective studies are needed to elucidate the role of vitamin D supplementation in patients with MG. Acknowledgement. This work was supported by a research grant from Jeju National University Hospital in 2016. Appendix A. Supplementary data. Supplementary data associated with this article can be found in the online version at https//doi.org/10.1016/j.jocn.2018.01.047.in patients with myasthenia gravis.
Mycophenolate Mofetil Treatment of Myasthenia Gravis. MG classified as a chronic autoimmune disease is the most common primary disorder of neuromuscular junction transmission. It affects 20.4/100 000 persons with an estimated 60 000 cases in the US.12 Over the past decade prevalence of MG has steadily increased probably as a result of decreased mortality prolonged survival and earlier/higher rates of diagnosis. Onset can occur at any age although incidence peaks in 2 population subsets women in their second and third decades of life and men in their seventh decade of life.1 MG often presents with extreme skeletal muscle weakness resulting in fatigue which abates with rest. Other common signs and symptoms of MG include ptosis myasthenic snarl transverse smile dysarthria difficulty chewing and in more advanced disease respiratory muscle weakness.34 These clinical features are the result of an autoimmune-mediated response wherein antibodies attack the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChRs at the neuromuscular junction.
ting the disease process of MG specifically through Tand B-lymphocytes.35 Mycophenolate Mofetil Treatment of Myasthenia Gravis. REQUEST end. Is mycophenolate mofetil an effective treatment option for myasthenia gravis MG. RESPONSE end. BACKGROUNDMG classified as a chronic autoimmune disease is the most common primary disorder of neuromuscular junction transmission. It affects 20.4/100 000 persons with an estimated 60 000 cases in the US.12 Over the past decade prevalence of MG has steadily increased probably as a result of decreased mortality prolonged survival and earlier/higher rates of diagnosis. Onset can occur at any age although incidence peaks in 2 population subsets women in their second and third decades of life and men in their seventh decade of life.1MG often presents with extreme skeletal muscle weakness resulting in fatigue which abates with rest. Other common signs and symptoms of MG include ptosis myasthenic snarl transverse smile dysarthria difficulty chewing and in more advanced disease respiratory muscle weakness.34 These clinical features are the result of an autoimmune-mediated response wherein antibodies attack the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChRs at the neuromuscular junction.
ting the disease process of MG specifically through T- and B-lymphocytes.35. Mycophenolate Mofetil Treatment of Myasthenia Gravis. William D Cahoon Jr and Denise R KocklerDrug Information RoundsAuthor information provided at the end of the text.OBJECTIVE To review published literature evaluating the effectiveness of mycophenolate mofetil for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG.DATA SOURCES Searches of MEDLINE 1966August 2005 and Cochrane Database 1993August 2005 were conducted. Studies conducted in humans and published in English were retrieved. Additional data were identified through subsequent bibliographic reviews.DATA SYNTHESIS Interruption of T- and B-lymphocyte proliferation in various autoimmune diseases has been investigated. Mycophenolate is known to inhibit lymphocyte proliferation and has shown improved clinical responses in several autoimmune diseases including lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis and systemic vasculitis. Data suggesting similar benefits in MG treatment have been reported in case reports retrospective analyses an open-label trial and a randomized double-blind trial.CONCLUSIONS Limited evidence from retrospective analyses and clinical trials suggests that mycophenolate is a possible treatment option for patients with MG.
Larger randomized controlled and comparative trials are needed to establish optimal dose time to effect specific therapeutic role and long-term safety for mycophenolate when used for treating MG.KEY WORDS myasthenia gravis mycophenolate.Ann Pharmacother 200640295-8.Published Online 10 Jan 2006 www.theannals.com DOI 10.1345/aph.1G501The Annals of Pharmacotherapy  2006 February Volume 40  295www.theannals.com at UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on April 18 2015aop.sagepub.comDownloaded fromPharmacologic treatmen. t of MG targets the mechanisms described above. Cholinesterase inhibitors have long been recognized as agents that improve symptoms associated with MG. They inhibit acetylcholinesterase from hydrolyzing ACh resulting in increased ACh concentrations and ultimately increased muscle contractions.6 Two immunotherapies plasmapheresis and immune globulin have been used for rapid albeit temporary symptom control. Symptom improvement that occurs with plasmapheresis seems to correlate with an anti-AChR antibody titer reduction however this effect is not consistent with immune globulin.7-9 More recently immunosuppressive agents ie corticosteroids azathioprine cyclophosphamide methotrexate interferon cyclosporine have become accepted as longterm options for treating MG.
Therefore other treatment options are needed.10Mycophenolate is an immunosuppressant used safely long term to prevent transplant rejection. It inhibits purine synthesis preferentially in T- and B-lymphocytes and inhibits their proliferation thus suppressing cell-mediated immune response and antibody formation.1314 Mycophenolate has shown positive outcomes in other immune-mediated disorders including lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis and systemic vasculitis.15-17 This review focuses on literature evaluating the efficacy and safety of mycophenolate for the treatment of MG and determines its role if any as a treatment option for. MG.LITERATURE REVIEWTwo case reports1819 2 retrospective analyses2021 an open-label trial22 and one double-blind randomized controlled trial23 evaluated the efficacy and safety of mycophenolate for the treatment of MG. These reports and trials included patients with refractory MG who had either previously failed or were currently uncontrolled while receiving other immunotherapies. Outcome measures varied although each study measured improvement in functional status and steroid dose reduction. Case Reports.
At the time of initiation the woman was also receiving prednisone 60 mg daily alternating with 20 mg daily and pyridostigmine 90 mg daily.Some improvement in shortness of breath and speech was reported within 5 days and continued improvement was noted over the following 30 days. Fifteen months after starting mycophenolate her symptoms resolved allowing for pyridostigmine discontinuation and prednisone tapering 25 mg every other day. No adverse reactions were noted.18In a second case report a 28-year-old female with worsening diplopia ptosis and facial muscle and leg weakness who experienced hepatic and renal insufficiency with azathioprine and cyclosporine respectively began a trial of mycophenolate 1000 mg twice daily.19 At the time of treatment initiation the patient was also receiving prednisone 40 mg daily and pyridostigmine 360 mg daily. Quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG score was 18  0  no functional deficit to 39  severe deficit.24 Initial improvements in weakness were noted on day 21. Thirty days after starting mycophenolate symptom improvements included only mild ptosis resolution of diplopia and normal strength in the womans upper and lower extremities and facial muscles.
Furthermore the patients QMG score steadily improved to 10. The authors concluded that mycophenolate might be a steroid-sparing alternative for treating patients with MG.19. Retrospective Analyses. A retrospective case analysis evaluated mycophenolate use in the treatment of neuromuscular diseases.20 Thirtyeight patients 32 with MG 3 with inflammatory myopathy 3 with chronic immune demyelinating neuropathy were treated with mycophenolate 1000 mg twice daily. Reasons for starting mycophenolate included the need for steroid-sparing effect or adjunct autoimmune therapy. Steroid dose reduction of 10 mg or more every other day or 1 or more grade change in an activities of daily living ADL scale score range 05 was considered an improvement.A steroid-sparing effect and improvement in functional status were noted in 16 50% and 19 59% patients respectively. Patients were followed for an average of 12 months with a mean time to improvement of 5 months. Patients with a more recent MG diagnosis had greater benefit from mycophenolate compared with those with an earlier diagnosis mean diagnosis time 7.5 vs 14 y respectively. The most commonly reported adverse events included mild gastrointestinal discomfort n  3 and diarrhea n  1.
postintervention status PIS scale from baseline. Other measures included QMG scores manual muscle test MMT scores range 1120 and corticosteroid and pyridostigmine dosing before and after mycophenolate treatment. Sixty-two 73% patients improved on the PIS scale. Significant reductions in QMG 8.4 vs 11.2 p < 0.001 and MMT scores 12.9 vs 7.8 p < 0.001 and prednisone doses per 48 hours 31.5 vs 17.6 mg p < 0.001 were reported.During mycophenolate treatment 8 patients were able to discontinue corticosteroids while a dose reduction of 50% or more was noted in 23 patients. Pyridostigmine doses were decreased in 29 57% patients p value not reported. The mean times to patient- and physician-reported improvement were 8.8 and 10.8 weeks respectively. Mycophenolate was discontinued in 5 patients because of gastrointestinal intolerance diarrhea nausea vomiting. The authors concluded that mycophenolate treatment in this population is safe well tolerated and associated with objective evidence of clinical improvement.21. Open-Label Trial. Ciafaloni et al.22 conducted an open-label pilot study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of mycophenolate for severe refractory MG.
Patients stabilized on cholinesterase inhibitors continued therapy throughout the study period. All patients received mycophenolate 1000 mg twice daily. The primary endpoint was a 3 or more point and 2 or more point reduction in the QMG and MMT scores respectively or a 50% or greater decrease in corticosteroid dose.Overall 8 patients met the primary endpoint 6 had improvements in QMG and MMT scores and 2 achieved the target decrease in corticosteroid dose. A statistically significant improvement was shown for QMG MMT and ADL scores at month 6 compared with baseline p < 0.023 0.001 0.004 respectively. ADL scores were improved as early as day 14 after mycophenolate was started and improvement was reported in all responders by day 60. No major adverse effects were observed. The authors concluded that mycophenolate may be an effective adjunctive therapy in the treatment of refractory and steroid-dependent MG and that larger well-designed studies are warranted.22. Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial. A double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study evaluated 14 patients with MG.23 Eligible patients were between 18 and80 years of age and allowed to continue stable doses of prednisone or cyclosporine however those receiving azathioprine were excluded.
Patients were randomized to receive mycophenolate 1000 mg twice daily n  7 or placebo n  7. The primary efficacy endpoint was the change in QMG score from baseline. Secondary endpoints included change in MMT score ACh receptorbinding antibody titers and single-fiber electromyography SFEMG abnormalities.Improvements in QMG scores were reported in patients treated with mycophenolate compared with those treated with placebo however the between-group difference was not statistically significant 2.86 vs 0.29 QMG score p  0.30. Regarding secondary endpoints only a difference in the change in SFEMG measure was statistically significant when mycophenolate-treated patients were compared with placebo-treated patients 15.37 vs  4.02 p  0.03. Adverse effects noted only in the treatment group included diarrhea n  2 urinary tract infections n  2 and insomnia n  1. The authors concluded that mycophenolate may be a promising agent for improving symptoms of MG. They conceded however that this was a small trial and the possibility of spontaneous improvement in MG must be recognized as evidenced by 2 placebo pts..23DISCUSSIONAlthough the results of these studies demonstrate symptom improvement in patients with MG when treated with mycophenolate significant limitations exist.
All of the trials included had small sample sizes were conducted over short periods of time and allowed patients to use concomitant medications thus making it difficult to isolate the effects of mycophenolate. Moreover these trials reported various outcome measurements. Measures that were purported to show significant improvement in the earlier studies QMG and MMT scores failed to show statistical significance in the double-blind placebo-controlled trial.SUMMARYInterruption of purine synthesis and ultimately lymphocyte proliferation appear to be important components in the treatment of MG. Experimental protocols using mycophenolate to inhibit this proliferation have resulted in symptomatic improvement although sometimes limited with significant steroid dose reduction in patients with MG. In clinical trials a delay in the onset of action ie several weeks to months was reported before benefit was noted. The usual mycophenolate dose used in clinical trials was 1000 mg twice daily range 10003000 mg/day.
Larger controlled and comparative clinical trials are needed nonetheless to establish optimal dose time to effect specific therapeutic role and long-term safety of mycophenolate when used for treating MG.William D Cahoon Jr PharmD Pharmacy Practice Resident Virginia Commonwealth University Health System Medical College of Virginia Hospitals Richmond VA Denise R Kockler PharmD Director Drug Information Services Virginia Commonwealth University Health System Medical College of Virginia Hospitals R. eprints Dr. Cahoon Virginia Commonwealth University Health System Medical College of Virginia Hospitals 401 N. 12th St. PO Box 980042 Richmond VA 23298-0042 fax 804/225-3920 wcahoon mcvh-vcu.edu. EXTRACTO end. OBJETIVO Resumir las publicaciones que han evaluado la efectividad de micofenolato en el tratamiento de miastenia gravis MG.FUENTES DE INFORMACIN Se realiz una revisin de la literatura a travs de MEDLINE 1966agosto 2005 y la base de datos de Cochrane 1993agosto 2005. Se utilizaron slo artculos publicados en el idioma ingls y estudios realizados en humanos. Se identific informacin adicional a travs de la revisin de bibliografias.SNTESIS Se ha investigado la interrupcin de la proliferacin de linfocitos T y B en varias enfermedades autoinmunes.
Algunos reportes de caso anlisis retrospectivos estudios con metodologa de etiqueta abierta y estudios aleatorios doble ciegos han demostrado un beneficio similar en MG.CONCLUSIONES Evidencia limitada de anlisis retrospectivos y estudios clinicos sugieren que micofenolato es una alternativa de tratamiento para pacientes con MG. Se ha reportado una mejora en sntomas clnicos y una disminucin en el requerimiento de esteroides al utilizar micofenolato en estos pacientes. Se necesitan estudios con mayor nmero de pacientes aleatorios controlados y comparativos que puedan establecer la dosis ptima el tiempo que tarda en observarse el efecto el rol teraputico especfico y la seguridad a largo plazo de micofenolato al utilizarse en el tratamiento de MG.Annette PrezRSUMOBJECTIF Faire le point sur la littrature publie valuant lefficacit du mycophnolate dans le traitement de la myasthnie grave.SOURCES DES DONNES Il a t conduit une revue de la littrature en langue anglais. e  partir de MEDLINE 1966aot 2005 et de Cochrane Database 1996aot 2005. Les rfrences pertinentes des articles reprs ont aussi t utilises.
Le mycophnolate est connu pour inhiber la prolifration lymphocytaire et a montr des rsultats cliniques favorables dans plusieurs maladies auto-immunes dont le lupus la polyarthrite rhumatode et les vascularites systmiques. Des donnes suggrant un bnfice similaire dans la myasthnie grave ont t exposes dans des rapports de cas anecdotiques dans des analyses rtrospectives dans un essai ouvert et dans un essai  allocation alatoire en double insu.CONCLUSIONS Des lments de preuve limits provenant danalyses rtrospectives et dessais cliniques suggrent que le mycophnolate est une possibilit thrapeutique pour les patients atteints de myasthnie grave. Une amlioration des symptmes cliniques et un effet pargneur de corticodes ont t nots lors de lemploi de mycophnolate dans cette population. Des essais comparatifs contrls  allocation alatoire et de forts effectifs sont ncessaires pour dterminer la dose optimale le dlai daction le rle thrapeutique prcis et la tolrance  long terme du mycophnolate dans le traitement de la myasthnie grave.Bruno Edouard298  The Annals of Pharmacotherapy  2006 February Volume 40 www.theannals.comat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on April 18 2015aop.sagepub.comDownloaded from.
These recommendations are outlined and discussed further in a recent editorial 2. These guidelines recommend that patients should be considered for osteoporosis prevention if their daily prednisolone dose is over 7.5 mg for 6 months a total dose of 1.35 g or more in 6 months. In those over the age of 65 years and those whose daily dose exceeds 15 mg for 6 months a total dose of 2.7 g osteoporosis treatment is recommended from onset. In younger patients with daily doses between 7.5 and 15 mg it is suggested that other risk factors such as premature menopause family history of fractures slender build and immobility should be considered. The guidelines suggest using bisphosphonates although another editorial mentions the small yet important risk of side effects the financial cost and the lack of information on long-term treatment 3. Patients with myasthenia gravis are a group of neurological patients who take corticosteroids often for prolonged periods 4. We undertook a retrospective review of patients with myasthenia gravis to determine how often osteoporosis prophylaxis would be indicated on the basis of these guidelines.
These included 4 with ocular myasthenia and 13 with generalized myasthenia 15 of whom were treated with oral prednisolone 3/4 with the ocular form and 12/13 with the generalized form. In the 15 patients treated with corticosteroids the mean total dose of prednisolone over the first 6 months was 4.6 g range 1.87.7 in those with ocular myasthenia 2.8 g range 1.83.5 and in those with generalized myasthenia 5.1 g range 2.17.7. Twelve of these had a total prednisolone dose over 6 months of more than 2.7 g equivalent to a daily dose of 15 mg. Three patients received a mean total prednisolone dose over 6 months between 1.35 and 2.7 g equivalent to 7.515 mg per day these were aged 71 74 and 83 years. This corticosteroid dosage was comparable to that reported in other studies. The daily prednisolone dose at 12 months in our patients was 225 mg. This compares with a median dose of 17.522.5 mg at 12 months in patients at tertiary referral centres 4. On the basis of the guidelines all patients who received corticosteroids for myasthenia gravis needed osteoporosis prophylaxis 12 because they received an average dose of 15 mg or more and 3 with a dose between 7.5 mg and 15 mg because of additional risk factors.
Despite this however 11 of 15 were given osteoporosis prophylaxis with biphophonate treatment. On the basis of this retrospective review all myasthenia gravis patients started on prednisolone fulfilled the current guidelines for osteoporosis prophylaxis indicating that most patients in this situation should be started on osteoporosis prophylaxis treatment at the onset. G end. D end. P end. Smith end. end. D end. L end. Stevens end. end. G end. N end. Fuller end. Myasthenia gravis corticosteroids and osteoporosis prophylaxisReceived 14 April 2000 Received in revised form 18 July 2000 Accepted 2 August 2000Sirs The National Osteoporosis Society has produced guidelines for osteoporosis prophylaxis for patients on corticosteroid treatment 1. These recommendations are outlined and discussed further in a recent editorial 2. These guidelines recommend that patients should be considered for osteoporosis prevention if their daily prednisolone dose is over 7.5 mg for 6 months a total dose of 1.35 g or more in 6 months. In those over the age of 65 years and those whose daily dose exceeds 15 mg for 6 months a total dose of 2.7 g osteoporosis treatment is recommended from onset.
The guidelines suggest using bisphosphonates although another editorial mentions the small yet important risk of side effects the financial cost and the lack of information on long-term treatment 3.Patients with myasthenia gravis are a group of neurological pa-tients who take corticosteroids often for prolonged periods 4. We undertook a retrospective review of patients with myasthenia gravis to determine how often osteoporosis prophylaxis would be indicated on the basis of these guidelines. We reviewed the records of all 17 patients 11 men and 6 women with myasthenia gravis patients presenting to the Neurology Department at Gloucester and Cheltenham Hospital catchment population 550000 over a 5-year period. These included 4 with ocular myasthenia and 13 with generalized myasthenia 15 of whom were treated with oral prednisolone 3/4 with the ocular form and 12/13 with the generalized form. In the 15 patients treated with corticosteroids the mean total dose of prednisolone over the first 6 months was 4.6 g range 1.87.7 in those with ocular myasthenia 2.8 g range 1.83.5 and in those with generalized myasthenia 5.1 g range 2.17.7. Twelve of these had a total prednisolone dose over 6 months of more than 2.7 g equivalent to a daily dose of 15 mg.
This corticosteroid dosage was comparable to that reported in other studies. The daily prednisolone dose at 12 months in our patients was 225 mg. This compares with a median dose of 17.522.5 mg at 12 months in patients at tertiary referral centres 4.On the basis of the guidelines all patients who received corticos-teroids for myasthenia gravis needed osteoporosis prophylaxis 12 because they received an average dose of 15 mg or more and 3 with a dose between 7.5 mg and 15 mg because of additional risk factors. Treatment was initiated in this cohort of patients prior to the publication of the guidelines. Despite this however 11 of 15 were given osteoporosis prophylaxis with biphophonate treatment.On the basis of this retrospective review all myasthenia gravis patients started on prednisolone fulfilled the current guidelines for osteoporosis prophylaxis indicating that most patients in this situation should be started on osteoporosis prophylaxis treatment at the onset. Use of Sugammadex in an octagenerian with Myaesthenia Gravis undergoing emergency laporotomy.
Anaesthesia and surgery in patients with Myaesthenia Gravis is associated with an increased incidence of complications including post operative ventilation. We report the successful use of intra-operative train of four ratio monitoring and Sugammadex to reverse rocuronium induced neuromuscular blockade in an elderly octagenarian with Myaesthenia Gravis undergoing an emergency laporotomy. Case report An 87 year old man with Myaesthenia Gravis underwent an emergency laporotomy for a perforated sigmoid diverticulum. Induction of anaesthesia was performed with 100 g of fentanyl 120 mg propofol and 25 mg rocuronium. Intraoperative boluses of 5 mg rocuronium were guided by train of four ratio of 50%. At the end of the procedure 4 mg/kg of Sugammadex was given to reverse neuromuscular blockade as observed by return of four twitches on the train of four. He was then successfully extubated and did not require any post operative ventilation. Conclusion We report the successful use of intra-operative neuromuscular monitoring and Sugammadex to reverse rocuronium inducedneuromuscular blockade in an elderly octagenarianwithMyaestheniaGravis undergoing emergency laporotomy. 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Department of Anaesthesia Northwick Park Hospital Watford Road HA1 3UJ UK. Corresponding author at Flat 8 Clementine Court 65N 0DG UK.E-mail addresses deepshahdoctors.org.uk D. Shah A end. Dharmarajah.http//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinane.2016.11.008 0952-8180/ 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f o. Article history. Received 19 November 2015 Received in revised form 19 October 2016 Accepted 30 November 2016 Available online xxxxBackgroundMyaesthenia Gravis is an autoimmune disorder that results in increased sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers. Anaesthesia and surgery in patients with Myaesthenia Gravis is associated with an increased incidence of complications including post operative ventilation. We report the successful use of intra-operative train of four ratio monitoring and Sugammadex to reverse rocuronium induced neuromuscular blockade in an elderly octagenarian with Myaesthenia Gravis undergoing an emergency laporotomy. Case report An 87 year old man with Myaesthenia Gravis underwent an emergency laporotomy for a perforated sigmoid diverticulum. Induction of anaesthesia was performed with 100 g of fentanyl 120 mg propofol and 25 mg rocuronium. Intraoperative boluses of 5 mg rocuronium were guided by train of four ratio of 50%.
He was then successfully extubated and did not require any post operative ventilation. Conclusion We report the successful use of intra-operative neuromuscular monitoring and Sugammadex to reverse rocuronium inducedneuromuscular blockade in an elderly octagenarianwithMyaestheniaGravis undergoing emergency laporotomy. 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Keywords end. Myasthenia Gravis Sugammadex Laporotomy. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia Gravis is an autoimmune syndrome caused by failure of transmission of the neuromuscular junction NMJ as a result of binding of autoantibodies to receptors involved in signalling at the NMJ. The condition is characterised by weakness and fatigue of skeletal muscle particularly after repetitive exercise. Weakness tends to subside after periods of rest and after administration of anticholinesterase medication 12.Current anaesthetic practice involves the use of neuromuscular blocking agents NMBA on the NMJ to facilitate control of the airway and to ensure procedures can be carried out on the motionless patient. Patients withmyasthenia gravis exhibit amarkedly higher sensitivity to NMBA and require very careful titration of these drugs.
HA3 aynkyahoo.coma Hartmanns procedure. The patient was subsequently reversed with Sugammadex without the need for post-operative ventilation. 2 end. Case report. An87 year old gentlemanwith a background of diverticulitis and hypertension was booked for an emergency laporotomy for a perforated sigmoid diverticulum. His past medical history included a diagnosis of Myaesthenia Gravis diagnosed 3 years previously forwhich hewas taking 240 mg pyridostigmine and 12 mg prednisolone daily.Three years prior to this admission the patient had received a general anaesthetic formanagement of an oesophageal pouch. At the time he did not have a diagnosis ofmyasthenia gravis although on retrospective questioning he was symptomatic. Review of this previous anaesthetic record revealed he received induction with 100 g fentanyl 150 mg propofol and 5 mg vecuronium. Anaesthesia was maintained with desflurane. At the end of the procedure he received reversal with 2.5 mg neostigmine and 500 g glycopyrrolate. He was subsequently extubated and taken to recovery. In recovery he developed type two respiratory failure due to poor respiratory effort. Auscultation revealed reduced air entry bibasally. He was re-intubated and transferred to intensive care for ventilation.
Central venous cannulationwas also performed. Anaesthesiawasmaintainedwith desflurane at a minimum alveolar concentration of 1.01.1. Intraoperative TOF ratio monitoring was performed by a 70 mA current supplied by an RS7 constant current nerve stimulator manufactured by G Rutter Ltd. Surrey UK. Reduced doses of 5mg rocuroniumwere used tomaintain neuromuscular blockade. A TOF ratio of more than 50% necessitated a bolus of 5 mg rocuronium. The procedure lasted for five hours during which time four boluses of 5 mg rocuronium were given.Reversal of NMBA induced blockade was initiated with 4 mg/kg Sugammadex with a return of four twitches on the TOF count after which he was successfully extubated. Post operatively he was managed in a high dependency settingwith closemonitoring of respiration swallow and cough. Pyridostigmine and prednisolonewere continued at the pre-operative dose. He was discharged to the surgical ward on day 3 post procedure. 3 end. Discussion. Anaestheticmanagement of patientswithmyasthenia gravis is complicated due to pre-existing muscle weakness resistance to the effects of succinylcholine and sensitivity to non depolarising muscle relaxants 3.
However use of amuscle relaxant could not be avoided as it was required for surgical access to the abdomen. The advent of the novel reversal agent Sugammadex has facilitated the intraoperative use of NMBA and its reversal.Sugammadex is a modified -cyclodextrin specifically designed to encapsulate themuscle relaxant Rocuronium. -cyclodextrins are cyclic oligosaccharide carbohydrates made of eight sugar molecules obtained from the degradation of starch 5. One molecule of Sugammadex is able to bind one molecule of Rocuronium non-covalently. On intravenous injection of Sugammadex it immediately binds free intravascular rocuronium which creates a concentration gradient which shifts rocuronium from the peripheral including NMJ to the central compartments. This results in restoration of NMJ transmission and muscle function.Review of the literature using the search terms Myaesthenia Gravis and Sugammadex reveals published data in the use of the use of Sugammadex as reversal for NMBA in patients with myasthenia gravis is limited to a case series consisting of 21 patients and numerous case reports.
There is nodescribeduse of this technique in elderly patients withmyasthenia gravis undergoing emergency laporotomy. Of note most reports detail the use of objective neuromuscular monitoring to assess depth of neuromuscular blockade including use by Rudzka-Noval et al. for elective abdominal surgery using vecuronium induced neuromuscular blockade 2.Recommended dosages range from0.22mg/kg to 16mg/kg depending on the depth of neuromuscular block 5. We monitored TOF ratio intraoperatively and gave rocuronium in 5 mg boluses. For reversal our patient received a dose of 4 mg/kg of Sugammadex which provided adequate reversal of NMBA as was monitored by TOF ratio during the peri-operative course. Using this technique we successfully enabled our patient to avoid prolonged invasive ventilation and complication associated with this.We believe the likely cause of his respiratory failure during his previous anaesthetic was residual neuromuscular blockade on a background of undiagnosed myasthenia gravis.On the second occasion we managed to avoid post operative ventilation. We therefore report the successful use of rocuronium and Sugammadex in an elderly patient with myasthenia gravis undergoing emergency abdominal laporotomy. Disclosure of interest. None. end.
Introduction Mycophenolate mofetil MMF is frequently used to treat myasthenia gravis but there is little information to guide clinicians on the safety of reducing the dose in well-controlled patients. Methods This retrospective chart review at 3 institutions identified 92 patients who had undergone MMF taper after achieving either pharmacologic remission or minimal manifestations status. Statistical analysis was performed to assess differences in patient characteristics between patients who had successfully tapered MMF and those who relapsed. Results Of 92 patients undergoing a taper 30 relapsed. The relapses were mild transient and usually responded to increased MMF dose. MG crisis did not occur. The mean dose at time of relapse was 888 mg/day. Patients with relapses were tapered more quickly 8.4 vs. 62.4 months. Conclusions Tapering MMF appears safe after years of disease stability. Reducing the dose at a dose of only 500 mg/day every 12 months is recommended. Muscle Nerve 52 211215 2015 Immunosuppression is often necessary to improve weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. Effective treatment in MG should achieve maximum muscle strength function and quality of life with minimal associated treatment side effects.
Two recent randomized controlled trials RCTs of MMF in conjunction with prednisone did not demonstrate benefit over prednisone alone at 3 months or show a steroid-sparing effect at 9 months. The short duration of these trials and the greater-than-anticipated response to prednisone may account for the lack of demonstrated efficacy in these studies. A more recent multicenter retrospective study demonstrated efficacy after the first 12 months of treatment with MMF as monotherapy and in conjunction with prednisone. These results do not conflict with the RCT data as benefit was not observed until after the period of observation in the RCTs was complete. This delayed response to MMF was similar to that observed in an RCT of azathioprine in MG. In a recent poll 85 of 104 82% neuromuscular physicians responded that they believe MMF is effective for treatment of MG. Based on these data and our clinical experience we believe that MMF is an effective therapy for many patients with MG. MMF has been associated with the rare incidence of serious side effects including infections lymphopenia lymphoproliferative disorders and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
The optimal dose for treatment in MG is uncertain. A common clinical practice based in part on the design of earlier clinical trials in MG is to start patients on 22.5 g/day of MMF e.g. 1000 mg  1250 mg twice per day. It is unknown whether reducing the dose of MMF in well-controlled patients with MG would continue to provide clinical benefit and lessen the risk of adverse events. Many clinical trials have attempted to demonstrate a steroid-sparing effect of adjunctive immunosuppressive agents such as MMF or azathioprine but little is known about if and when clinicians should subsequently taper other immunosuppressants in wellcontrolled MG patients after steroids have been adequately tapered. Given the life-threatening nature of a myasthenic crisis and a lack of evidence-based guidelines clinicians may be hesitant to taper immunosuppressive agents in MG. To guide clinicians who treat MG we believe it is important to understand whether medications like MMF can be tapered safely in patients who are clinically well-controlled on immunotherapy. We were particularly interested in whether patient or disease characteristics could predict success or failure of a medication taper.
Muscle Nerve 52 211215 2015Immunosuppression is often necessary to improve weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. Effective treatment in MG should achieve maximum muscle strength function and quality of life with minimal associated treatment side effects. Mycophenolate mofetil MMF a purine synthesis antagonist that selectively inhibits proliferation of B- and T-lymphocytes1 is commonly prescribed to treat MG as either an adjunct to prednisone or as monotherapy.Two recent randomized controlled trials RCTs of MMF in conjunction with prednisone did not demonstrate benefit over prednisone alone at 3 months or show a steroid-sparing effect at 9 months.23 The short duration of these trials and the greater-than-anticipated response to prednisone may acc. ount for the lack of demonstrated efficacy in these studies. A more recent multicenter retrospective study demonstrated efficacy after the first 12 months of treatment with MMF as monotherapyand in conjunction with prednisone.4 These results do not conflict with the RCT data as benefit was not observed until after the period of observation in the RCTs was complete.
eukoencephalopathy.9 Many of these adverse effects improve with cessation or reduction in MMF dose and appropriate therapy indicating that they may be related to the dose and duration of treatment.10 The optimal dose for treatment in MG is uncertain. A common clinical practice based in part on the design of earlier clinical trials in MG is to start patients on 22.5 g/day of MMF e.g. 1000 mg  1250 mg twice per day. It is unknown whether reducing the dose of MMF in well-controlled patients with MG would continue to provide clinical benefit and lessen the risk of adverse events.Many clinical trials have attempted to demonstrate a steroid-sparing effect of adjunctive immunosuppressive agents such as MMF or azathioprine2511 but little is known about if and when clinicians should subsequently taper other immunosuppressants in wellcontrolled MG patients after steroids have been adequately tapered. Given the life-threatening nature of a myasthenic crisis and a lack of evidence-based guidelines clinicians may be hesitant to taper immunosuppressive agents in MG.To guide clinicians who treat MG we believe it is important to understand whether medications like MMF can be tapered safely in patients who are clinically well-controlled on immunotherapy.
We present data from a retrospective analysis of a large cohort of MG patients treated at 3 institutions Duke University University of Abbreviations MG myasthenia gravis MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MM minimal manifestations MMF mycophenolate mofetil MuSK muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase PIS post-intervention status PR pharmacologic remission Key words monotherapy myasthenia gravis mycophenolate mofetil relapse taper Correspondence to L. Hobson-Webb e-mail lisa.hobsonwebbduke.edu VC 2015 Wiley Periodicals Inc. Published online 23 April 2015 in Wiley Online Library wileyonlinelibrary.com. DOI 10.1002/mus.24694Use of MMF in MG MUSCLE  NERVE August 2015 211Virginia and the Mayo Clinic who underwent a taper of MMF. Patients were treated with MMF either as monotherapy or in conjunction with prednisone. We believe this study provides important information about tapering MMF in clinical practice and offers a framework for the design of additional studies of tapering MMF and other immunosuppressant medications in MG. METHODS end. The institutional review boards of Duke University the University of Virginia and the Mayo Clinic approved this study. A retrospective review of MG patients who have ever taken MMF during the years 200022013 was performed.
Acetylcholine receptor antibody2positive anti2muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase antiMuSK antibody2positive and seronegative MG patients were included in the analysis. All seronegative patients had a clinical syndrome typical of MG and a confirmatory result on single-fiber electromyography seronegative pure ocular MG patients also had a negative MRI of the brain and orbits. After this initial query a secondary query selected those patients who achieved a Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA postintervention status PIS of minimal manifestations MM-0 MM-1 MM-2 or MM-3 or pharmacologic remission PR at any time during treatment with MMF. Of these patients a subsequent query was performed to identify those who had undergone a taper of MMF.Tapers typically occurred under direction of the treating physician although some patients reduced the dose without consulting their treating clinicians. Both groups were included in this analysis. A successful taper of medication was defined by no clinical worsening either patient-reported or physician-detected at the time of their last clinical examination and after 6 months on the lowest reported dose of MMF.
These prednisone doses were stable during the MMF taper period.The following information was recorded for the patients in each group current age age at MG onset gender ethnicity acetylcholine receptor antibody status MuSK antibody status duration of MG history of thymectomy prior pharmacotherapy for MG maximum MMF dose minimum MMF dose last MMF dose duration of treatment with MMF time from initiation of MMF to minimalmanifestations MM/PR maximum MGFA severity class and MGFA class at initiation o. f MMF end. If the patient was on multiple medications any failed attempt to discontinue treatments other than MMF was recorded. If MMF was tapered unsuccessfully patients clinical symptoms and their responses to increasing the MMF dose restarting MMF or initiating another immunosuppressant were recorded.Data Analysis. The analysis was essentially descriptive although a comparison of means of selected variables using a Student t-test was performed on identified subgroups. RESULTS end. Patients CharacteristicsAll Prescribed MMF. Records review from the 3 sites identified a total of 553 patients with MG who had taken MMF 288 from Duke 69 from the University of Virginia and 196 from the Mayo Clinic. The group was distributed nearly evenly between men n 5 270 49% and women n 5 283 51%.
Mean age of onset of MG was 51.65 6 19 years and the mean duration of disease before initiating MMF was 5 years. Thirty-seven percent n 5 203 had failed other immunosuppressive therapy including corticosteroid monotherapy before using MMF.MMF Taper Group. Ninety-two patients 17% who were successfully treated with MMF underwent a taper 80 were on MMF monotherapy during the taper. The reasons for initiating MMF taper were not always recorded in the medical records but in almost all cases it appeared to be because the patient was well-controlled and the clinician considered a taper of MMF would be clinically appropriate.Successful MMF Tapers. Sixty-two 67% patients 7 Mayo Clinic 11 University of Virginia and 44 Duke University successfully tapered MMF without relapse. Fifty-six patients were on MMF monotherapy at the time of taper. Only 6 of the 62 patients were taking another immunosuppressant at the time of their last clinic visit all 6 were taking prednisone with a mean daily dose of 9.05 6 5.17 mg median 7.5 mg range 4.320 mg. Seven of the 62 were able to completely discontinue use of MMF and all other MG-related medications. Thirtyeight patients in the successful taper group were men 61% and 24 were women 39%. The mean age of MG onset was 52.7 6 17 years.
Twenty-three 37% had undergone a thymectomy. Pathology was available for 19 patients 7 thymoma 6 thymic212 Use of MMF in MG MUSCLE  NERVE August 2015hyperplasia 4 thymic atrophy 2 normal. Mean duration of disease before initiating MMF therapy was 4.5 6 6.5 years. Thirty patients 48% had previously failed other immunosuppressants. The highest MGFA class recorded for the group was 2.81 6 0.9 range 15 Table 1.Patients had been taking MMF for a mean of 5.9 6 2.4 years range 1.511 years before initiating a taper. The mean maximum daily MMF dose in this group was 2344 6 534 mg median 2000 mg range 5003500 mg. The mean minimum daily MMF dose was 1250 6 727 mg median 1000 mg range 02500 mg. The observed taper occurred over a mean of 62.4 months range 8124 months. The mean absolute daily amount of MMF tapered was 1347 mg. Mean follow-up at the lowest recorded dose was 33.8 months range 6120 months.A separate analysis was performed on the 7 patients who were able to discontinue MMF and other MG-related medications completely. The average age of MG onset in this group was 40.1 6 22 years. Four had positive acetylcholine receptor antibodies 57% and 2 had MuSK antibodies 29%. Four had also had thymectomy 1 thymic hyperplasia 1 thymic atrophy 2 normal.
Three patients 43% had previously failed other immunosuppressants. The initial MGFA classrecorded for the group was 2.71 6 1.1 whereas the worst MGFA class was 3.0 6 0.8.Patients had been taking MMF for a mean of 4.2 6 1.3 years range 26 years before initiating a taper. The mean daily maximum MMF dose in this group was 1642 mg 6 627 mg median 2000 mg range 50022000 mg. The observed taper occurred over a mean of 42.8 months range 25107 months. Mean follow-up at the lowest recorded dose was 22.8 months range 1254 months.When compared with those patients who were able to lower MMF doses but not completely discontinue medication a few differences were seen. There was a nearly significant trend toward shorter duration of MG before starting MMF 2.3 vs. 4.5 years P 5 0.06. These patients also had a lower maximum daily MMF dose 1642 vs. 2344 mg P 5 0.02 and a shorter duration of MMF treatment before starting the taper 4.2 vs. 5.9 years P 5 0.01. This subgroup was too small to draw conclusions but starting MMF earlier in their disease course may have resulted in a better outcome.Failed MMF Tapers. Thirty patients failed in their attempts to taper MMF 13 Mayo Clinic 1 University of Virginia and 16 Duke University. Of these 18 60% were men and 12 40% were women.
Most patients were antibody positiveUse of MMF in MG MUSCLE  NERVE August 2015 21380% had acetylcholine receptor antibodies and 7% had MuSK antibodies. Twelve patients 40% had undergone thymectomy with data on pathology in 10 of 12 4 thymoma 2 thymic hyperplasia 1 thymic atrophy 3 normal. Two of the patients with thymoma received radiation therapy after resection. Mean duration of MG before starting MMF was 3.74 6 4.6 years range 0.089.75 years. Ten patients 33% had previously failed other immunosuppressant therapies. The highest MGFA class recorded for the group was 2.80 6 1.16 range 15 Table 1. Nine patients 30% were taking prednisone at the time of taper failure. The mean daily dose was 8.9 6 5 mg/day median 7.5 mg range 520 mg at the time of MMF failure.Patients who failed MMF taper had been taking MMF for a mean of 4.39 6 2.6 years before initiating a taper. The mean maximum MMF dose in this group was 2216 6 387 mg/day range 1000 3000 mg/day. The mean taper duration time from first to last MMF dose change was 8.4 months range 0224 months. The mean dose at which MG relapse occurred was 888 6 755 mg/day median 1000 mg/day range 03000 mg/day. Mean time to relapse on that dose was 8.13 6 10.1 months median 4 months range 0.518 months.
Mean stability at the lowest recorded dose was 10.6 months 324 months. Data were available on 19 of 30 patients regarding whether the MMF taper was patient- or clinician-initiated. Only 2 of these patients stopped taking MMF without approval from their treating physician.The mean worst MGFA class recorded after taper failure was 1.44 6 0.92 median 1 range 0 4. Of the MMF taper failures 72% achieved PR or MM again 18 of 25 5 patients unknown. Only 9 of 30 30% patients required intervention other than increasing the dose of MMF to the last dose at which they were asymptomatic. Three added pyridostigmine and 3 had a single course of intravenous immunoglobulin and/or plasmapheresis. Five patients increased or restarted prednisone. Even in the 3 patients admitted to the hospital all improved and none had a respiratory crisis. The time to achieve PR or MM in these 30 patients was 2.9 6 2 months median 3 months range 06 months with Mayo Clinic data missing on 7 patients.Differences between MMF Taper Success and Taper Failure Groups. Significant differences were evident in duration of MMF therapy before initiating a taper taper success 5.9 years vs. taper failure 4.4 years P 5 0.033.
taper failure 8.4 months P 5 0.009. The duration for successful tapers was 5 years whereas taper failure occurred at a mean of 8 months in those who failed MMF taper.No differences were found for gender age of MG onset duration of MG before starting MMF thymectomy antibody status initial MG severity worst MGFA class best MGFA class or last recorded MGFA class. There were no differences in previous immunosuppressant failure time to MM/PR starting MMF as monotherapy maximum MMF dose or absolute amount of MMF taper. For those MG patients on prednisone there was no difference in dose of prednisone at the time of taper failure or last visit for those with taper success. There was a trend toward a difference in minimum MMF dose P 5 0.11 with the lowest doses seen in the taper failure group mean MMF dose 1250 vs. 992 mg/day. Further analysis demonstrated a trend toward more patients discontinuing MMF minimum dose 0 mg in the taper failure group 23% vs. 11% P 5 0.17.MMF Monotherapy Group Comparisons. A separate data analysis was performed which excluded all patients in the taper success and taper failure groups who were taking prednisone while MMF was being tapered. This was done to exclude any confounding effects from multidrug therapy.
taper failure 4.3 years P 5 0.01. The mean duration of the taper time to the lowest dose of MMF was also significantly longer in the MMF taper success group taper success 56.6 months vs. taper failure 9.6 months P 5 0.0001. A notable finding is that the taper success group had a higher rate of previous immunosuppressant failure than the group that relapsed during taper 45% vs. 14% P 5 0.01.No differences were found in gender age of MG onset duration of MG before starting MMF thymectomy thymic pathology antibody status initial MG severity worst MGFA class best MGFA class or last recorded MGFA class. There were no differences in time to MM/PR starting MMF as monotherapy maximum MMF dose minimum MMF dose or absolute amount of MMF taper. DISCUSSION. MMF is widely used as a steroid-sparing agent for long-term management of MG. This retrospective multicenter study focusing on MG patients214 Use of MMF in MG MUSCLE  NERVE August 2015taking MMF who had their MMF dose tapered provides some valuable lessons. First attempting an MMF taper is safe for patients. Two-thirds of the patients who underwent an MMF taper were able to successfully reduce their daily dose of MG without noticeable decline. These patients were followed for a mean of nearly 3 years without relapse.
Three patients required hospitalization for treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin and/or plasmapheresis but no patient had a respiratory crisis. Furthermore 72% of these patients achieved MM or PR again within a few months after the MG exacerbation. When this happened the typical intervention was to increase the dose of MMF most often to 2000 mg/day.A second important observation is that slow and steady was the preferred course for MMF taper. Based on our data physicians probably should wait a few years e.g. 5 years before starting MMF dose reduction and reduce the dose gradually. For example our data suggest that 1-year intervals between dose reductions may be appropriate. Relapses typically occurred within 1 year of dose reduction mean 10 months. It is also advisable for treating neurologists to stay apprised of patients who have tapered or discontinued MMF as relapses can occur much later.This study also suggests that particular caution should be used when reducing the daily dose to <1000 mg at which time the risk of relapse appears to increase.There were some surprises in our analysis. It was expected that patients who failed MMF taper would have started on a lower dose of MMF but this was not true.
There was no difference in the rate of corticosteroid use between the 2 groups. The only meaningful differences found were the duration of MMF therapy before starting the taper and the length of timeover which the taper occurred. Excluding patients who were taking corticosteroids during the taper did not change these conclusions.This study is not without limitations. It was retrospective but a prospective study of this duration would be nearly impossible to undertake. The number of patients undergoing a taper n 5 92 was low but it represents a large number given the relative rarity of MG treated with long-term MMF. There was also no standard protocol for MMF dose reduction or standard target for the tapering e.g. 50% dose reduction. The long duration of followup availability of detailed data and multicenter approach helped to mitigate these factors.In conclusion tapering of MMF is safe in patients with well-controlled MG. It is more likely to be successful if patients have been on a stable dose of MMF for several years. A slow taper also helps to ensure success and our data suggest that reducing the dose no more than 500 mg/day every 12 months may be the appropriate pace. Fatal Strongyloides hyper-infection in a patient with myasthenia gravis.
Case presentation Our patient was a farmer with a past history of living in an endemic area for Strongyloides stercoralis in Iran. Hyper-infection was diagnosed during the advanced-stage disease by demonstration of enormous number of larvae in the direct smears prepared from both the stool and tracheal secretions. Unfortunately despite appropriate antiparasite therapy the patient died due to respiratory failure. Conclusion We recommend the provision of more awareness in high-risk people prior to immunosuppressive therapy through screening for S. stercoralis even in nonendemic regions. Purpose We report a fatal case of Strongyloides hyperinfection as the result of corticosteroid therapy of a patient with myasthenia gravis. Case presentation Our patient was a farmer with a past history of living in an endemic area for Strongyloides stercoralis in Iran. Hyper-infection was diagnosed during the advanced-stage disease by demonstration of enormous number of larvae in the direct smears prepared from both the stool and tracheal secretions. Unfortunately despite appropriate antiparasite therapy the patient died due to respiratory failure. Conclusion We recommend the provision of more awareness in high-risk people prior to immunosuppressive therapy through screening for S.
Introduction. Strongyloides stercoralis S. stercoralis is the smallest human intestinal nematode and a unique soil-transmittednematode with capability of internal autoinfection and freeliving life cycle. Human infection is acquired through the cutaneous entry of filariform larvae which later develop into adult worms in the small intestine followed by a migratory phase through the lungs. S end. stercoralis has a short life cycle however the ability to produce internal autoinfection leads to the development of sustained infection in humansa phenomenon considered to be the cause of persistent infection in American veterans after years of leaving the endemic areas in Vietnam 1. It is reported that in a chronic uncomplicated strongyloidiasis the host and the parasite live in harmony autoinfection is well regulated by the hosts cell-mediated immunity and the number of adult worms is low and stable. This balanced condition may be disrupted in immunocompromised patients leading to hyper-infection and eventually production of large numbers of filariform larvae. These larvae penetrate the intestinal wall and disseminate in various organs through circulation.
Corticosteroid therapy is considered to be a major risk factor for hyper-infection by the parasite as fatal strongyloidiasis hyper-infection is reported in patients with ulcerative colitis 4 multiple myeloma 5 dermatomyositis 6 renal transplant patients 7 liver transplantation 8 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 9 hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 10 and lymphocytic leukemia 11. We present here a case of fatal strongyloidiasis hyperinfection in a resident of a non-endemic region who was M. Saraei B end. Hosseinbigi M. Shahnazi Department of Parasitology and Mycology Faculty of Medicine Qazvin University of Medical Sciences Qazvin Iran B. Bijani Department of Infectious Diseases Faculty of Medicine Qazvin University of Medical Sciences Qazvin Iran B. Bijani  Buali Hospital Buali St 34137-86165 Qazvin Iran e-mail dr.bijanigmail.comgiven corticosteroid therapy for treating his autoimmune disease. Case presentation. A 57-year-old man who was a known case of myasthenia gravis and on chronic immunosuppressive therapy azathioprine and high dose prednisolone was presented with abdominal pain dyspnea and productive cough of 2 weeks duration. He was a resident of Qazvin province with a history of living and working as a farmer in Guilan province.
stercoralis but Guilan province with a Mediterranean climate is historically an endemic area of this parasite. On admission to the emergency room the patient was febrile hypotensive and tachycardic. Pulse oximetry showed 88 % saturation in room air. Pulmonary examination was notable for bibasilar rales. His abdomen was soft and non-tender with no sign of hepatosplenomegaly. Chest X-ray revealed bilateral pulmonary infiltrates especially in the lower portions of the right lung. Empiric treatment for sepsis due to suspected respiratory or gastrointestinal source combined with immunosuppressive therapy was initiated. Neurological examination was unremarkable. Computed tomographic scan of the brain was normal. Despite therapeutic measures dyspnea worsened. The patient was intubated and admitted to the intensive care unit ICU. Considering the patient diagnosed as having progression of myasthenia gravis with increased respiratory failure mycophenolate was added to immunosuppressive immunotherapy. Complete blood count revealed anemia hemoglobin  8 mg/dl withnormal peripheral blood leukocyte count without eosinophilia. While in the ICU the patient in addition to other clinical complaints developed diarrhea.
stercoralis Fig. 1a b as well as the filariform larvae of the parasite in tracheal secretions Fig. 2.Ivermectin and albendazole were prescribed. The patient was started on albendazole 800 mg daily as ivermectin was not available in the hospital and prednisolone dosage was decreased to 10 mg daily. Within the next 4 days the patients clinical state continued to decline with increased respiratory failure and efforts to obtain Ivermectin from local and national resources were not successful. Despite Albendazole monotherapy the clinical condition deteriorated and the patient eventually died due to respiratory failure on the fourth day following anti-parasite treatment. Discussion. The case presented in this report died following Strongyloides hyper-infection overwhelming strongyloidiasis associated with immunosuppressive therapy for myasthenia gravis. To our knowledge in spite of numerous cases of hyper-infection the cases of S. stercoralis hyper-infection in the myasthenia gravis are scant in the literature and this is the first fatal case reported from the Eastern Mediterranean region.Our patient had a history of living in a village in Guilan province located on the southern coast of the Caspian Sea which is known as an endemic area for soil-transmitted helminths such as S.
The climate of the northern provinces of Iran is different from other regions and is in favor of evolution and survival of the parasite eggs and larvae which can infect human by oral or skinpenetration. On the other hand the consumption of raw vegetables and direct contact with the moist soil in rice fields are the main risk factors in the province. Half a century ago more than 50 % of people in the area were positive for at least one of the intestinal nematodes but it has decreased to 1 % in recent decades. Promotion of health services easy access to effective and broad-spectrum anti-nematode drugs increase in the level of literacy and knowledge about the prevention of parasitic infections and improvement in human waste disposal systems are the major measures which have led to a substantial decrease in the prevalence of parasites within the areas so that these parasitic infestations are not considered as major health problems any longer 12.Immigration of Guilanian villagers to non-endemic areas for. S end. stercoralis in Iran can be regarded as a risk factor for parasitic hyper-infection. Our patient was a Guilanian villager working in rice fields who immigrated to Qazvin province around 30 years ago. Qazvin province a nonendemic area for S.
l educations. Therefore infection with this parasite may be neglected by clinicians. 2 laboratory negligence stool examination is usually requested for the detection of intestinal parasites which is routinely performed through wet direct smear or rarely by concentration method both with lower sensitivity compared to agar plate test for the detection of chronic infections with S. stercoralis and 3 lack of guideline for the screening of S. stercoralis in patients under therapy with immunosuppressive agents. Infection with S. stercoralis may be identified during the advanced stage of hyper-infection when it is too late for anti-parasite treatment and therefore with high mortality as observed in our case reported here.Although S. Stercoralis is reported to be the major parasitic agent for the appearance of eosinophilia in clinical cases in Guilan province 13 nevertheless no eosinophilia was found in our patient who showed a large number of S. stercoralis larvae in both stool and sputum examinations. The low rate of eosinophilia in hyper-infection or disseminated strongyloidiasis is attributed to the suppressive effect of corticosteroids 14. It is proposed that corticosteroids induce the hyper-infection of S.
Furthermore this drug can affect the female parasites leading to increased oviposition 16.We recommend the provision of more awareness over the high-risk people through screening for S. stercoralis using more sensitive diagnostic methods prior to immunosuppressive therapy.Acknowledgments We would like to thank Dr. Ali-Asghar Pahlevan for the time generously spent in thoroughly revising the manuscript.Conflict of interest On behalf of all authors the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of interest. Mycophenolate Mofetil A New Immunosuppressive Approach Successful Treatment in a Case of Myasthenia gravis Associated with Incomplete Lupus erythematosus Syndrome and Hepatitis C Virus Infection. Mycophenolate mofetil MMF is a prodrug of mycophenolic acid which is a potent selective noncompetitive inhibitor of the de novo pathway of purine synthesis in activated B and T lymphocytes 1. Its efficacy and safety as an immunosuppressive treatment have been proven in organ transplantations 2 and suggested in various autoimmune diseases 1 3 4. So far its use in autoimmune neurological conditions has been reported in 2 cases of myasthenia gravis MG refractory to common immunosuppressive drugs 5 6.
Short Reports 53Eur Neurol 2001465354. Mycophenolate Mofetil. end. A New Immunosuppressive Approach. Successful Treatment in a Case of Myasthenia gravis Associated with Incomplete Lupus erythematosus Syndrome and Hepatitis C Virus Infection. C end. Caponnetto a E. Rossi b A. Primavera a. aDepartment of Neurological Sciences and Vision University of Genova and bDepartment of Hematology S. Martino Hospital Genova ItalyMycophenolate mofetil MMF is a prodrug of mycophenolic acid which is a potent selective noncompetitive inhibitor of the de novo pathway of purine synthesis in activated B and T lymphocytes 1. Its efficacy and safety as an immunosuppressive treatment have been proven in organ transplantations 2 and suggested in various autoimmune diseases 1 3 4. So far its use in autoimmune neurological conditions has been reported in 2 cases of myasthenia gravis MG refractory to common immunosuppressive drugs 5 6. Here we report the case of a 37-year-old woman affected by connective tissue disease and chronic active hepatitis C who developed generalized MG which was favorably treated with MMF. Case Report. In 1996 a 37-year-old woman started complaining of arthralgias and generalized asthenia. In 1997 she presented diffuse purpura.
There was no clinical sign of thyroiditis. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 60 mm/h C-reactive protein and rheumatoid arthritis tests were negative. A liver biopsy revealed chronic active hepatitis. In 1998 anti-DNA antibodies homogeneous pattern and hypergammaglobulinemia with increased IgG 2044 mg/dl and depressed complement levels C3 73 mg/dl normal range 88200 C4 5 mg/dl normal range 1647 were detected while anti-double-strand-DNA antibodies were negative. A diagnosis of incomplete lupus erythematosus syndrome 7 was made. Low doses of steroids prednisone 25 mg/day were administered but were soon discontinued owing to increased values of aspartate aminotransferase 160 mg/dl range 0 40 mg/dl and alanine aminotransferase 200 mg/dl range 040.A few months later as clinical worsening of the rheumatological condition suggested the need for stronger immunosuppression quantitative HCV RNA testing was performed. Its value was 0.305 mEq/ ml normal value 0.2 mEq/ml and the patient was treated with deflazacort 30 mg/day and amantadine 200 mg/day 8. -Interferon was avoided on account of its possible adverse effect on autoimmune diseases 9. In October 1998 the patient was well and decided to discontinue all treatments. In February 1999 she complained of diplopia and general weakness.
The clinical diagnosis of MG was confirmed by a decremental response up to 30% on repetitive nerve stimulation increased jitter on single fiber EMG and by anti-acetylcholine-receptor antibodies 17.900 nmol/l normal range 00.7 nmol/l. CT of the chest demonstrated thymus enlargement. While waiting for thymectomy and after a short unsuccessful trial with cholinesterase inhibitors and dexamethasone 8 mg/day the patient underwent a multitherapy withpiridostigmine 240 mg prednisone 25 mg and MMF 2 g. Clinical improvement was noted in a few weeks and after 3 months the neurological symptoms had subsided without major side effects. Repetitive stimulation was negative and jitter values were decreased. There was no sign of liver dysfunction as transaminases were within normal limits. There was no significant increase in quantitative HCV RNA values 0.800 mEq/ml. Prednisone was then reduced to 12.5 mg with persistence of neurological and systemic remission. At 1 year follow-up and after thymectomy she is asymptomatic with piridostigmine 240 mg prednisone 5 mg and MMF 2 g.Discussion The association of MG and other autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus is well known.
Indeed the severity of autoimmune manifestations in our patient suggested the need for effective immunosuppression thus engendering the possible risk of worsening the HCV infection. In liver transplant recipients Paterson et al. 11 reported that MMF does not appear to significantly increase the risk of infections and in particular of hepatitis C recurrence while it was associated with fewer episodes of acute rejection. Furthermore MMF at doses of 2 g daily is sufficiently free from serious side effects 1 4. Although MMF appears to be rapidly effective in the present case we cannot exclude a cumulative effect of other drugs. The rapid favorable evolution with no major side effects and no signs of worsening of HCV infection suggests that MMF could be used as monotherapy or in association with other drugs for cases of MG refractory or intolerant to common immunosuppressive treatments 5. This may allow to reduce the drug dosage and avoid serious side effects. Additional investigations are needed to establish the role of MMF in the treatment of MG.Acknowledgment The authors are grateful for the constructive criticism of Dr.Antonio Uccelli.References 1 LipskyJJ Mycophenolate mofetil. Lancet 1996 34813571359.
Transplantation 199968391396. 3 Neurath MF Wanitschker R Peters M Krummenauer F Meyer zum Bushenfelde KH Schlak JF Randomised trial of mycophenolate mofetil versus azathioprine for treatment of chronic active Crohns disease. Gut 199944 625628. 4 Enk AH Knop J Mycophenolate is effective in the treatment of pemphigus vulgaris. Arch Dermatol 1999 1355456. 5 Hauser RA Malek AR Rosen R Successful treatment of a patient with severe refractory myasthenia gravis using mycophenolate mofetil. Neurology 199851912913. 6 Meriggioli MN Rowin J Treatment of myasthenia gravis with mycophenolate mofetil A case report. Muscle Nerve 20002312871289. 7 Greer JM Panush RS Incomplete lupus erythematosus. Arch Intern Med 198914924732476. 8 Smith JP Treatment of chronic hepatitis C with amantadine. Dig Dis Sci 199742 16811687. 9 McMurray RW Elbourn K Hepatitis C virus infection and autoimmunity. Semin Arthritis Rheum 1997 26 689701.54 Short Reports10 Gurtubay IG Morales G Archaga O Gllego J Development of myasthenia gravis after interferon alpha therapy. Electromyogr Clin Neurophysiol 199939 7578. 11 Paterson DL Singh N Panebianco A Wansted CF Wagener MM Gayowski T Marino IR Infectious complications occurring in liver transplant recipients receiving mycophenolate mofetil.
39 0103 53 7040 Fax 39 0103 53 8631 E-Mail ccaponnettoneurologia.unige.itCopyright S. Karger AG Basel 2001. Reproduced with the permission of S. Karger AG Basel. Furtherreproduction or distribution electronic or otherwise is prohibited without permission from the copyrightholder. Efficacy of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy for ocular myasthenia gravis. ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT. Factors associated with acute exacerbations of myasthenia gravis. Funding information Special thanks to the Office of Medical Education at the University of Missouri School of Medicine at Columbia and the Summer Fellowship Research Program for funding this research. Abstract Introduction The etiology of acute exacerbations of myasthenia gravis MG is not well understood and further characterization can lead to improved preventative measures. This study aims to characterize factors contributing to MG exacerbations. Methods A total of 127 MG patient charts were reviewed retrospectively 2011-2016 to obtain demographics immunizations pharmaceutical records contributing factors of each MG exacerbation emergency department ED visits hospitalizations and duration. Results There were 212 exacerbations requiring 106 ED visits and 141 hospitalizations average admission 6.5 days.
Infection related exacerbations were associated with 44.3% of ED visits and 39.7% of hospitalizations. Patients prescribed beta-blockers were associated with more exacerbations P < .01. Patients prescribed medications that may worsen MG had a higher exacerbation frequency shortly after administration. Discussion Infections and cautioned medications are frequently factors in acute MG exacerbations needing urgent medical attention and warrant caution. Columbia Missouri 2Health Management and Informatics University of Missouri School of Medicine Columbia Missouri 3Department of Neurology University of Missouri Hospital Columbia MissouriCorrespondence Rohit Gummi 5 Hospital Drive Columbia MO 65212. Email rohitgummigmail.comFunding information Special thanks to the Office of Medical Education at the University of Missouri School of Medicine at Columbia and the Summer Fellowship Research Program for funding this research.Introduction The etiology of acute exacerbations of myasthenia gravis MG is notwell understood and further characterization can lead to improved preventative mea-sures.
Highest contributors were infections 30% andmedications that may worsen MG 19% with 24% unattributed. Infection relatedexacerbations were associated with 44.3% of ED visits and 39.7% of hospitalizations.Patients prescribed beta-blockers were associated with more exacerbations P < .01.Patients prescribed medications that may worsen MG had a higher exacerbation fre-quency shortly after administration.Discussion Infections and cautioned medications are frequently factors in acute MGexacerbations needing urgent medical attention and warrant caution.K E YWORD S exacerbation infection medication myast. henia gravis vaccine. 1  INTRODUCTION. Myasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune disorder of the neu-romuscular junction with symptoms ranging from focal ocular weakness to generalized weakness with respiratory failure.1 MG can occurat any age in either sex.
ned MG exacerbations.7 Among the contributors to MG exacerbations infections account for 40-70% of cases and a 3-8% mortality rate.89 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention broadly recommends annual influenza vaccinations for all persons over the age of 6 months and notes the particular importance in persons at increased risk for severe complications including those immunosuppressed by medications.10 Administration of pneumococcal vaccines PCV13 and PPSV23 is advised for all healthy indi. viduals Abbreviations ED emergency department EMR electronic medical records MAUC-MG medications to be avoided or used cautiously in patients with MG MG myasthenia gravis MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America VNPI vaccine nonpreventable infections VPI vaccine preventable infections..Muscle  Nerve. 201917 end. wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/mus  2019 Wiley Periodicals Inc.
essed the impact of these medications in a large MG patient population.This studys objective was to characterize MG exacerbations and their contributors with an emphasis on the impact of infections and MAUC-MG on emergency department ED visits hospitalizations and admission durations. 2  METHODS. end. 2.1  Data acquisition. A retrospective chart review was performed on all patients with the International Classification of Diseases Ninth Revision code for MG 358.00 at a single academic medical center between 2011 and 2016 with approval by the local institutional review board. Of a total of 210 patients those with an unestablished MG diagnosis one-time consultation or less than one follow-up in the neurology clinic annually were excluded. A total of 127 patients meeting inclusion criteria were included in this study.
eview pertinent patient demographics age race gender date of diagnosis and MGFA classifications at diagnosis. Clinic notes from neurology primary care and ED visits were reviewed to obtain data on immunizations medications and accounts of each MG exacerbation. The retrieved data focused on documented date presumed cause and severity of exacerbation along with subsequent ED visit hospital admission and admission duration.Immunization records were acquired from EMR documentation which included a record of nurse-administered vaccinations or patient account of outside vaccination. Our cohort of patients was analyzed between 2011 and 2016 therefore pneumococcal pneumonia vaccinations were accounted for from 2006 onward. The vaccinations of interest for vaccine preventable infections VPI were seasonal influenza and pneumococcal vaccines PCV13 and PPSV23. Development of an acute MG exacerbation associated with VPI was defined by the presence of VPI at the time of ED visit/ hospitalization. Diagnosis ofVPI was established by documented laboratory tests including microbiology assessment blood/sputum cultures or imaging that supported diagnosis of seasonal influenza or pneumonia.
All cases of unspecified upper respiratory infections were included in the vaccine nonpreventable infectionsVNPI group.Specific cautioned medications listed in the MGFA Drugs to avoid or use with caution in MG list are referred to as medications to avoid or be used with caution in patients with MG MAUC-MG.12At the institution from which our study subjects were selected each patient was given a recommendation to receive the pneumococcal pneumonia and annual influenza vaccinations before treatment. Each patient diagnosed with MG went through medication reconciliation was educated on pharmaceutical contributors to acute MG exacerbations and was provided with the aforementioned MGFA list. Records were reviewed to determine instances of prescriptions for MAUC-MG patients without an established neuromuscular specialist without neuromuscular specialist consultation or without established initial care at this institution. 2.2  Exacerbation categorization.
Unknown indicated no identifiable associated factors based on available clinical notes and/or laboratory results in the EMR. MAUC-MG classification was based on the MGFA Drugs to avoid or use with caution in MG list.12 VPI included pneumococcal pneumonia and seasonal influenza supported by clinical notes and/or laboratory findings. VNPI included unspecified respiratory upper and lower tract urological gynecological dermatological otorhinolaryngological and sepsis. Medical non-compliance was defined by lack of adherence to medication. Inadequate treatment was described as patients on sub-therapeutic dosages who were never titrated up to therapeutic doses before exacerbation. Therapeutic doses were considered those most frequently used for MG treatment including at least pyridostigmine 40-600 mg daily prednisone 5-100 mg daily azathioprine 50 mg mycophenolate mofetil 1-2 g daily rituximab 0.5-1 g methotrexate 10-20 mg/week cyclosporine 100 mg twice daily tacrolimus 3 mg daily cyclophosphamide 1-5 mg/kg monthly and intravenous immune globulin 2 g/kg at intervals.1718MG exacerbations occurring after a procedure surgical or therapeutic were categorized as procedure rela. ted end.
These included summer school finals education related anxiety social acknowledgement and commentary regarding visible MG symptoms at work workloaddriving hindered by ptosis sudden illness of a significant other and preoperative anxiety. Diagnostic error was interpreted as a missed MG diagnosis resulting in lack of treatment initiation or subsequent discontinuation of a prior MG targeted regimen. 2.3  Statistical analysis. Each exacerbation was assigned one of more of the above categories. As a result of assigning single exacerbations to multiple categories the sum of exacerbations from individual categories exceeded the total number of exacerbations. The number of ED visits and lengths of hospitalizations were summed for each exacerbation category. ED visits and hospitalizations that resulted from an exacerbation with multiple associated factors were counted toward each possible contributor. Predictors of ED visits and hospitalizations were analyzed using logistic regression to predict odds of flare-up for each factor. Poisson regression was used to predict the number of exacerbations by race sex antibody status thymectomy status and MGFA class. Statistical tests were performed using SAS 9.4.
The lengths of stay for each presumed cause of exacerbation were compared using one-way analysis of variance. A P-value of < .05 was considered significant. 3  RESULTS. end. 3.1  Population demographics. The studied population included 127 MG patients with the characteristics described in Table 1. There were 212 total exacerbations among77 of these patients average of 2.75. The remaining 50 patients didnot experience any exacerbations. Table 2 describes the characteris-tics of patients who did and did not experience an exacerbation. Therewas no significant difference in race sex antibody status or thymec-tomy status between the two groups. Patients were on immunosup-pressive therapy before 150 71% exacerbations. They were onsymptomatic therapy with cholinesterase inhibitors before 168 79%exacerbations. 3.2  Exacerbation results. The factors most often linked to exacerbations were in the categoriesof unknown infections or MAUC-MG Figure 1. Exacerbations werefurther analyzed for whether they led to an ED visit led to a hospitali-zation or led to differing admission durations Table 1.Factors most often associated with exacerbations that led to ED admissions were VPI followed by unknown exacerbations and MAUC-MG Table 3.
The predicted probability of a person having visited ED due to an exacerbation that was linked to a VPI was 74.6% whilethe predicted probability of a person having an ED visit with an exacerbation not linked to a VPI was 41.9%.Hospitalizations were most associated with exacerbations in the unknown factor category followed by VPI Figure 2. Patients who had an exacerbation linked to medical noncompliance were less likely to require hospitalization Table 4. The predicted hospitalization probability for a person who had an exacerbation characterized as medical noncompliance was 35.5% while the predicted hospitalization probability for a person who did not have an exacerbation characterized as medical noncompliance was 64.4%. The average duration of hospitalization was 6.5 days per exacerbation Figure 2. There were no significant differences in lengths of hospitalizations when exacerbations with differing associated factors were compared P > .05. 3.3  Infections. The incidences of VPI were 16.5% for pneumococcal pneumonia and 11% for seasonal influenza Supporting Information Figure S1 which is available online. Two patients developed an infection despite vaccination both had influenza whereas the remaining patients that had influenza were not immunized.
Older patients both at diagnosis and current age were at increased risk factor for VPI P < .05 but not for VNPI.Sixty-three patients 49.6% had documented recommendations of PCV-13 or PPSV-23. Of those 66.7% received PPSV-23 and 3.2% lacked documentation to confirm vaccination. The remaining patients did not receive vaccination due to age disqualifier despite physicians order or patient refusal Supporting Information Figure S2. Based solely on age requirements 23 of 37 patients met the criteria for PPSV-23 and 3 of 5 patients met it for PCV-13 at the time of vaccine administration.Other immunizations administered to the studied MG patients included 16.5% with diphtheria tetanus and pertussis immunization 3.9% with zoster live vaccine 2.6% with H1N1 immunization and 0.8% with varicella immunization. Between 2011 and 2016 the pattern of influenza vaccinations was as follows 2011-2012 at 10.2% 2012-2013 at 18.1% 2013-2014 at 25.2% 2014-2015 at 22.8% and 2015-2016 at 18.9%. 3.4  Medications. MAUC-MG were factors in 19% of the recorded exacerbations. Of the 127 patients reviewed 84 had at least one documented MAUCMG. Beta-blockers were most often prescribed 61 followed by fluoroquinolones 49 and azithromycin 31 Table 1.
The remaining 43 MG patients who were not prescribed any of these medications experienced a total of 34 exacerbations average 0.79 exacerbations.Logistic regression of whether patients experienced exacerbations due to previously prescribed medications showed that beta blockers and gentamycin/neomycin had significant effects Table 5. The odds of an exacerbation after being prescribed beta blockers were F IGURE 1 MG exacerbation categorizations. MG exacerbations categorized into nine classes unknown VPI VNPI MAUC-MG medical noncompliance inadequate treatment procedure related social stress and diagnostic error. The frequency of such exacerbations is represented as a percentage value based on the total exacerbations recorded Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.comincreased 2.7-fold compared with those patients never prescribed beta blockers.Overall there were 162 occasions where a listed medication was prescribed to a patient in our sample with a distinct start date. Prescription of a MAUC-MG was followed by an exacerbation within 30 days in 22% of cases. The most common medication associated with an exacerbation was azithromycin followed by fluoroquinolones and beta blockers Supporting Information Table S1.
Many of the exacerbations were seen within the initial days of medication use. 4  DISCUSSION. Many prior studies identified significant factors that contributed to the clinical course of MG such as age and gender19 while others reported the first year of the disease as the height of worsening severity of MG symptoms.20 These exacerbations necessitated emergent treatment and often further hospitalization.21 Several studies have focused on classification of risk factors contributing to MG exacerbation necessitating emergent treatment and have identified late onset MG above 50 years and the. presence of additional autoimmune diseases as prognostic elements.22 Other predisposing triggers include respiratory infection 40% emotional stressors microaspirations 10% changes in medication regimen 8% surgery or trauma.923-28 Our study further identified different kinds of infections and certain medications as contributors to acute MG exacerbations.
In our study many patients with MG were on immunosuppressive medications at the time of a VPI that preceded an exacerbation. These patients did not have reported vaccinations before the infection. However some patients might have underreported vaccines received at external facilities. Infections were among the most common factors associated with MG exacerbations ED visits hospital admissions and longer admission durations. Bershad et al. found that pneumonia was the highest contributor to MG exacerbations among upper airway infection.8 Higher ED visits and hospitalizations in this category may have resulted from symptoms of infection compounding symptoms of MG exacerbation.Further studies are needed to establish vaccination guidelines in MG patients.Previous studies have advised caution with the use of certain medications in patients with MG.30 Our study provides additional evidence in support of an association between MAUC-MG p. rescribed in this study and increased risk of exacerbation. These medications were linked to a high number of exacerbations. Patients on beta blockers were at increased risk of exacerbation but there are not significantly more exacerbations immediately after prescription of beta blockers.
Although we are unable to isolate individual causes we identified significant risk factors for physicians to monitor. Given previous studies showing benefit of vaccinations without risk in MG patients our study further demonstrated that VPI are frequently observed immediately before MG exacerbations.6729 Administration of MAUC-MG specifically beta-blockers is often associated with MG exacerbations and more exacerbations are seen in the initial days after prescription with the number of exacerbations attenuating over time indicating that these patients should be monitored more closely. However this study does not prove a causal relationship between the two. Furthermore high initial doses of prednisone are cautioned against but prednisone is also part of the treatment of MG. Therefore patients that require these medications should not avoid them but should be monitored closely especially in the days immediately following prescription.The study was limited by its retrospective nature and lack of adequate documentation of some patients MG exacerbations. These limitations may have contributed to the large number of exacerbations in the unknown category. Furthermore some patients in this study did not have electronic documentation of their diagnostic testing 18% of total patients.
Although an association existed between certain medications and exacerbations the studys retrospective nature did not allow us to exclude confounding factors such as underlying diseases other than MG to show direct causality. Prospective studies would be helpful in examining confounding factorsF IGURE 3 MG exacerbations post medication administration. Number of exacerbations seen within 30 days postadministration of one of the MAUCMG. An exacerbation that occurred 1 day after medication administration is counted in day 1 this trend is shown up to 30 days post medication initiation Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.comand establishing guidelines for the safe use of medications and vaccines in MG patients. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. Special thanks to Dr. Mazen M end. Dimachkie MD for his edits and invaluable suggestions to the study. Preliminary information was contained within poster presentations at the following conferences American Academy of Neurology Boston MA 2017 American Association of Neuromuscular  Electrodiagnostic Medicine Phoenix AZ 2017 CSCTR/MWAFMR combined annual meeting Chicago IL 2017 American Medical Womens Association San Francisco 2017 American College of Physicians Regional Conference Lake of Ozarks MO 2016.CONFLICT OF INTERESTDr.
Dr end. Rohit Reddy Gummi reports no disclosures. Dr end. Natalie Anna Kukulka reports no disclosures. Dr end. Chelsea B. Deroche reports no disclosures.ETHICAL PUBLICATION STATEMENTWe confirm that we have read the Journals position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report is consistent with those guidelines. Preoperative High-Dose Steroid Has Long-Term Beneficial Effects for Myasthenia Gravis. Previous studies addressing preoperative steroid treatment have revealed that control of myasthenia gravis MGwith steroids prior to surgery appeared to stabilize postoperative status.The purpose of our study was to clarify the clinical benefits of the preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment on the long-term outcomes of MG patients. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 171 MG patients who were followed up after undergoing thymectomy in our hospital between 1988 and 2006. One hundred and thirteen patients in the programmed treatment group had received preoperative steroid treatment while 58 patients received no steroid treatment during the preoperative period. Clinical remission which was defined as the achievement of the modified pharmacologic remission PR for at least 1 year and clinical benefits were compared between the two groups.
This study might be the first as per our knowledge to indicate that preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment has long-term beneficial effects for MG patients. Hindawi Publishing Corporation Neurology Research International Volume 2013 Article ID 709480 7 pages http//dx.doi.org/10.1155/2013/709480. Clinical Study. end. Preoperative High-Dose Steroid Has Long-Term Beneficial. end. Effects for Myasthenia Gravis. Syuichi Tetsuka Ken-ichi Fujimoto and Kunihiko IkeguchiDivision of Neurology Department of Internal Medicine Jichi Medical University 3311-1 Yakushiji Shimotsuke Tochigi 329-0498 JapanCorrespondence should be addressed to Syuichi Tetsuka syuichijichi.ac.jpReceived 3 April 2013 Revised 19 June 2013 Accepted 26 June 2013Academic Editor Dirk DeleuCopyright  2013 Syuichi Tetsuka et al.This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License which permits unrestricted.
We retrospectively reviewed the records of 171 MG patients who were followed up after undergoing thymectomy in our hospital between 1988 and 2006. One hundred and thirteen patients in the programmed treatment group had received preoperative steroid treatment while 58 patients received no steroid treatment during the preoperative period. Clinical remission which was defined as the achievement of the modified pharmacologic remission PR for at least 1 year and clinical benefits were compared between the two groups. With regard to the remission after thymectomy Kaplan-Meier life-table curves for patients in the preoperative steroid treatment group versus those for patients in the no steroid preoperative treatment group revealed a significantly higher probability of the PR in the preoperative steroid treatment group log-rank test  < 0.01. This study might be the first as per our knowledge to indicate that preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment has long-term beneficial effects for MG patients. 1 end. Introduction. The prognosis of myasthenia gravis MG has improved dramatically because of advances in critical care medicine and symptomatic treatments.
Thymectomy is based on this immunological background. MG patients that cannot be controlled with adequate symptomatic treatment or those who fail to achieve remission after thymectomy usually achieve remission after the addition of other immunotherapies. Steroids are the firstline of immunosuppressive treatment and the most consistently effective treatment for MG. Several studies of steroid treatment for MG found that remission or a marked improvement occurred in approximately 80% cases and high-dose steroids are universally preferred for remission induction 1. Immunosuppressive treatment comprising alternate-day administration of steroids before thymectomy was reported by Yamaguchi and associates to help stabilizethe patients condition after surgery 2. MG patients have undergone thymectomy after programmed high-dose steroid treatment at our hospital since 1991. Endo et al. reported that programmedhigh-dose steroid treatment inMGpatients is feasible and provides clinical benefits for preoperative fluctuating symptoms at our hospital 3.
rgical site infection or postoperative complications were noted. Furthermore steroid treatment before extended thymectomy is related to early palliation of MG symptoms. However some researchers are of the opinion that steroid treatment should be avoided if possible because they increase the risk of side effects and that preoperativehigh-dose steroid treatment should be avoided considering the risk of initial deterioration. Furthermore the long-term outcomes of this treatment remain unclear. Thus in order to advocate this approach with increased confidence it is necessary to investigate the effects of this treatment on longterm outcomes. 2 end. Patients and Methods. 2.1 end. Patients Data. We retrospectively evaluated the data of 171 patients who had undergone thymectomy for MG during an 18-year period 19882006 Table 1. As mentioned previous patients have undergone thymectomy after programmed high-dose steroid treatment at our hospital since 1991 and patients who did not received high-dose steroid treatment mainly were those before 1991. The diagnosis of MG was based on clinical and electromyographic evaluations and positive edrophonium or intramuscular neostigmine responses.
Preoperative disease severity was established according to the Osserman classification. Patients were divided into two groups on the basis of preoperative treatment a programmed treatment group that received the programmed high-dose steroid treatment and a no preoperative steroid treatment group that was treated after surgery as required with different combinations of anticholinesterase agents and steroids. The preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment group comprised 113 patients and the no preoperative steroid treatment group comprised 58 patients Table 1. The studywas conducted with the approval of the ethics committee at our institution.2.2. Inductions for Preoperative Programmed High-Dose Steroid and Medication. To decrease the risk of initial worsening of MG symptoms due to steroid administration alternate-day oral administration of prednisolone PSL was initiated at 510mg/day which was then gradually increased by 510mg/week up to 1.5mg/kg maximum 120mg 3 7. When patients achieved a PSL treatment with 1.5mg/kg drug alternate day for 46 weeks transsternal extended thymectomy was performed. A histamine H2 blocker vitamin D orbisphosphonate and potassium were routinely administered to all patients as prophylaxis for the adverse effects of steroids.
Patient Followup and Outcome Evaluation. After discharge from the hospital patients visited the neurology outpatient clinic regularly every month unless medications were discontinued. From 1 to 2 months postoperatively reduction of PSL was started at the rate of 5mg/month or less according to patient symptoms. Transition of PSL dose and representative side effects of steroid were recorded. Annual evaluation of medications and symptoms was conducted after thymectomy for both groups of patients. We defined that the end point of the study was the achievement of the modified pharmacologic remission PR. In order to approach complete stable remission CSR as closely as possible the modified PR was defined as the absence of symptoms and signs of MG for at least 1 year with intake of a daily PSL dose of 5.0mg or less for MG and no intake of other immunosuppressive drugs that we have set our own definition referring to the past clinical trials 8.Prognostic factors including time of diagnosis from onset <1 year age at onset <40 years and severity of disease at diagnosis Osserman classification 1 2A t.
Statistical Analysis. For general statistical analyses we used the SPSS v.11.0.1 program. Values for continuous data are presented as mean  standard deviation and range. The 2 test for independent testing was used to compare categorical variables and Students -test was applied to compare continuous variables. The Mann-Whitneys -test was applied to the Osserman classification for independent testing between both groups. Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis was performed and the log-rank test was used to evaluate effects of the variables examined on the distribution of the modified PR and the defined recurrence over time. The Cox proportional hazard model was applied to verify the concurrent effect of the evaluated factors on the modified PR. The following variables were included in the model preoperative programmed high-dose steroid yes versus no sex male versus female age at onset <40 years versus 40 years thymoma presence versus no the Osserman classification 1 2A versus 2B 3 4 and time of diagnosis from onset <1 year versus 1 year. All tests were two-tailed and significance was set at  < 0.05. 3 end. Results end. 3.1 end. Patients Characteristics. Patient characteristics are listed according to group in Table 1.
And the number of MG patients who started to take additional immunosuppressive drugs after surgery was 10/113 8.8% in preoperative steroid treatment group and 1/581.7% in no preoperative steroid treatment group with the difference not being significant Table 1.3.2. Postoperative Respiratory Failure and Myasthenic Crisis after Thymectomy. Postoperative respiratory failure and myasthenic crisis occurred only in a patient 0.9% in preoperative steroid treatment group but did occur in 6 patients 10.3% in no preoperative steroid treatment group during intraoperative period  < 0.01 2-test Figure 1. Preoperative high-dose steroid treatment was found to be the largest impact as well as previous studies.3.3. Probability of theModified PR in Both Groups. According to the Kaplan-Meier life table analysis the probability of the modified PR in the preoperative steroid treatment group was 40% 54% and 76.5% at 3 5 and 10 years respectively. On the other hand the probability of the modified PR in the no preoperative steroid treatment group was 32.5% 34.5% and 49% at 3 5 and 10 years respectively Figure 2.
o 1.946 95% confidence interval 1.1883.189   0.008 presence of thymoma hazard ratio 1.901 95% confidence interval 1.025 3.526   0.041 and time of diagnosis from onset 1 year hazard ratio 1.660 95% confidence interval 1.026 2.686   0.039 as prognostic factors in MG patients after thymectomy Table 2.Thus preoperative programmed highdose steroid treatment was an independent predictor of the modified PR in the multivariate analysis. The other values were not significant Table 2.3.4. Probability of Recurrence after the Modified PR in Both Groups. Kaplan-Meier curves analysis for the defined recurrence of MG patients after the modified PR status was performed. There were 83 MG patients that achieved the modified PR status during followup preoperative steroid 56 no preoperative steroid 27 without censure. In contrast these MG patients in the no preoperative steroid treatment group exhibited a significantly higher rate of the defined recurrence than those in the preoperative steroid treatment group log-rank test   0.03 Figure 3.3.5. Cumulative Frequency of Steroid Treatment afterThymectomy in the No Preoperative Steroid Group. We show the cumulative frequency of steroid treatment after thymectomyin the no preoperative steroid group during follow-up period Figure 4.
The cumulative frequency increased gradually and 10 years after thymectomy it increased to 64% in the no preoperative steroid group.3.6. Steroid Side Effects after Thymectomy in the Preoperative Steroid Group. Steroid side effects after thymectomy during follow-up period in the preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment group are listed in Table 3. Side effects were documented in 42/133 patients 37.2% during followup period with hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus being the most common.3.7. Probability of the Modified PR with or without Thymoma. Furthermore when patients either with or without thymoma were compared Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis revealed a significantly higher probability of the modified PR in the absence of thymoma log-rank test   0.04 Figure 5. 4 end. Discussion. It should be noted that there is currently no clear evidence regarding the optimal timeframe for steroid dose reductionthe speed with which steroids can be safely reduced and duration of treatment 10.Therefore it was difficult to define CSR as the endpoint in our study. Thus we have set our own definition of PR as the endpoint referring to the past clinical trials 7.
Our study revealed the probability of the modified PR in the programmed high-dose steroid treatment group was significantly higher than that in the no preoperative steroid treatment group and this finding was independent of the previously mentioned prognostic factors in the multivariate analysis. Furthermore it is important to know whether during followup MG patients could keep the modified PR status without disease deterioration to indicate the long-term beneficial effects of preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment. In our study we could indicate that MG patients in the no preoperative steroid treatment group exhibited a significantly higher rate of the defined recurrence than those in the preoperative steroid treatment group Figure 3.Although MG patients in the no preoperative steroid treatment group did not receive steroids before thymectomy many of them were gradually required to use steroids for disease control after thymectomy Figure 4. These observations suggest that the timing of commencing steroid use is not critical. The therapeutic effect of thymectomy generally occurs after approximately 1 year and remission is most likely in the 510-year period following surgery 13 14.
The underlying reason is that anti-AChR antibodies are produced not only in the thymus but also in external tissues including peripheral lymph nodes and bone marrow. Therefore the additional immunotherapies such as those with steroids are anyways required in many MG patients after thymectomy. The same fact was recognized even in our study.A limitation of this study was that we compared a little different time periods of the two groups. Because results of treatment generally improve with time by various causes this factor might influence results of our study. However significant effect of preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment was remarkable high as an independent predictor of the modified PR in MG patients after thymectomy in the multivariate analysis Cox regression analysis   0.008. Thus taking this thing together with our other previously mentioned data and previous reports we considered that the result had sufficient reliability.The autoimmune nature of the disease underlies the rationale for using steroids considering that the beneficial effects of this group of drugs have been observed in other autoimmune diseases. The mechanisms of action of steroids in MG patients are poorly understood.
We suggest that one of the reasons for the clinical effects of preoperative high-dose steroid treatment is the blockage of pathways by which immunoactivation causes cellular damage and undesirable clinical outcomes at a stretch. Moreover the high doses generally used to induce remission can also induce apoptosis of various immune cells 17 18.PSLwas used in themajority ofMGpatients. Althoughwe were able to reveal that preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment has long-term beneficial clinical effects inMG patients a critical factor in the treatment of MG patients is the occurrence of steroid-induced side effects. Numerous steroid side effects of varying severity were reported including osteoporosis diabetes mellitus infection gastric ulcer and glaucoma among others and at least one side effect was observed in 52.2% patients of MG patients 1. But short courses of large intravenous doses were reportedly employed to manage exacerbations with good results 19. Sanders and Evoli reported that at least 30% of their patients developed some side effects usually weight gain and easy bruising until the dose was decreased to 20mg on alternate days or less 20.
Diabetes is a strong but not absolute contraindication to steroids. Glucose control requires adjustment of hypoglycemic agents and it can be especially challenging if an alternate-day regimen is attempted. In such patients wemay administer a daily dose while decreasing the amount as rapidly and as completely as the disease allows. Themany severe side effects of long-term steroid use indicate that such a long-term use should be avoided.Therefore other immunosuppressive drugs could be coadministered to enable a decrease in the steroid dosage 2123 although these agents may have their own side effects that require monitoring 13 24.Thymoma has been reported as a factor associated with worse neurological outcome and symptom relapse after thymectomy 25 26. The results from this study showed that thymomatous MG was a risk factor for the modified PR. Although themechanisms underlying the effects of thymoma on MG remain unclear several possibilities exist. For example thymoma is more common among older patients so that MG may be relatively more severe in patients with thymoma 11. Alternatively patients with thymoma may have an increased tendency for associated autoimmune disorders and extrathymic neoplasms 27.
5 end. Conclusion. In conclusion previous studies have revealed that preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment for the control of MG before surgery apparently stabilizes postoperative status. Ours might be the first study as per our knowledge to indicate that preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment has long-term beneficial effects for MG patients. Acknowledgment. Thisworkwas supported byGrants-in-Aid from the Research Committee of CNS Degenerative Diseases the Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare of Japan. Erratum to Shenqi Fuzheng Injection Alleviates the Transient Worsening Caused by Steroids Pulse Therapy in Treating Myasthenia Gravis. Erratum end. Erratum to Shenqi Fuzheng Injection Alleviates the Transient Worsening Caused by Steroids Pulse Therapy in Treating Myasthenia GravisGuo-Yan Qi Peng Liu and Bu-Lang Gao. Department of Oncology Shijiazhuang First Hospital and Hebei Provincial Hospital of Myasthenia Gravis. end. 36 Fanxi Road Shijiazhuang Hebei 050011 China. Correspondence should be addressed to Bu-Lang Gao browngao163.comReceived 23 February 2014 Accepted 6 March 2014 Published 18 March 2014Copyright  2014 Guo-Yan Qi et al.
Most of the worsening occurs between 3 and 5 days in the treatment group and between 3 and 10 days in the control group. D day.Figure 3 The effect results were shown in both groups with different treatment.RE recovery BR basic recovery MI marked improvement IM improvement IN ineffectiveness. Hindawi Publishing Corporation Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine. Volume 2014 Article ID 626972 1 page http//dx.doi.org/10.1155/2014/626972Copyright of Evidence-based Complementary  Alternative Medicine eCAM is the property of Hindawi Publishing Corporation and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holders express written permission. However users may print download or email articles for individual use. New Insights on the Pathogenesis of Hypercalcemia in Primary Hyperparathyroidism. The pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism is attributed to increased calcium release from bone increased calcium reabsorption in renal distal tubules and increased intestinal calcium absorption. However it remains unclear which factor is the main process. We encountered a 56-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis in whom hypercalcemia and elevated serum parathyroid hormone PTH level were observed.
Treatment with methylprednisolone for myasthenia gravis was associated with a marked decrease in both biochemical markers of bone formation and resorption without any changes in endogenous cAMP and serum levels of calcium PTH and 125dihydroxyvitamin D3 125-OH2D3. These findings suggest that the possible pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism may be attributed to the increased calcium reabsorption in the kidney and the increased intestinal calcium absorption as a result of stimulated production of 125-OH2D3 in the kidney. It thus follows that the renal tubular effect rather than the skeletal effect of the PTH excess may play a pivotal role in the development of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism. KEY INDEXING TERMS Glucocorticoids Hypercalcemia Parathyroid hormone Primary hyperparathyroidism.
absorption as a result of stimulated production of 125-dihydroxyvitamin D3 125-OH2D3 in renal proximal tubule.2 However it remains unclear which factor is the main process. We encountered a patient with primary hyperparathyroidism who additionally received glucocorticoid therapy for myasthenia gravis. This treatment suppressed the stimulated bone formation and bone resorption resulting from excess PTH without any changes in serum levels of calcium intact PTH serum 125-OH2D3 nephrogenous cyclic adenosine 35-monophosphate cAMP and urinary calcium excretion. Observations in this patient provide evidence that the renal tubular effect rather than the skeletal effect of PTH in excess may play a pivotal role in the development of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism. dihydroxyvitamin D3 125-OH2D3. These findings suggest that the possible pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism may be attributed to the increased calcium reabsorption in the kidney and the increased intestinal calcium absorption as a result of stimulated production of 125-OH2D3 in the kidney. It thus follows that the renal tubular effect rather than the skeletal effect of the PTH excess may play a pivotal role in the development of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism.
Am J Med Sci 20003205 334336.Calcium level in the serum is tightly regulatedthrough the actions of parathyroid hormone PTH on its target organs kidney and bone.1 It is well recognized that the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism is attributed to the following three processes which result from PTH in excess 1 increased calcium release from bone as a result of stimulated bone resorption 2 increased calcium reabsorption in renal distal tubule and 3 increased intestinal calc. ium absorption as a result of stimulated production of 125-dihydroxyvitamin D3 125-OH2D3 in renal proximal tubule.2 However it remains unclear which factor is the main process.We encountered a patient with primary hyperparathyroidism who additionally received glucocorticoid therapy for myasthenia gravis. This treatment suppressed the stimulated bone formation and bone resorption resulting from excess PTH withoutany changes in serum levels of calcium intact PTH serum 125-OH2D3 nephrogenous cyclic adenosine 35-monophosphate cAMP and urinary calcium excretion. Observations in this patient provide evidence that the renal tubular effect rather than the skeletal effect of PTH in excess may play a pivotal role in the development of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism. Case Report.
The patient had a high serum titer of antiacetylcholine receptor antibody and had been diagnosed with myasthenia gravis. On admission her physical examination was unremarkable except for ptosis of the right eyelid. Results of laboratory evaluation on admission included serum calcium level of 5.4 mEq/L and ionized calcium level of 2.78 mEq/L. Serum phosphorus level was 3.2 mg/dL. Results of complete blood cell count renal function tests and urinalysis were all unremarkable. The serum intact PTH level was determined to be 57 pg/mL. The serum level of 125-OH2D3 was 42.8 pg/mL. The serum levels of PTH and 125- OH2D3 were considered inappropriately high for the serum calcium level.3 Nephrogenous cAMP an in vivo bioassay of PTH production was 8.35 nmol/100 mL of glomerular filtration and percent tubular reabsorption of phosphorus was 86.1%. These findings were considered to reflect renal tubular effect of PTH in excess. An enlarged parathyroid gland was demonstrated in the neck by 99mTcmethoxy isobutyl isonitrite MIBI scintigraphy and ultrasonography. Hypercalcemia in the patient was therefore thought to result from primary hyperparathyroidism.
Submitted March 30 2000 accepted June 2 2000. Correspondence Katsuhiko Yonemura M.D. Ph.D. Hemodialysis Unit Hamamatsu University School of Medicine 3600 Handa-cho Hamamatsu 431-3192 Japan E-mail katsuhhama-med.ac.jp.334 November 2000 Volume 320 Number 5calcin a marker of bone formation was high 9.4 ng/mL. In addition urinary excretion of deoxypyridinoline a marker of bone resorption was high 8.9 nmol/L per mmol/L creatinine. These laboratory findings were considered to be the result of both stimulated bone formation and bone resorption resulting from PTH in excess. Methylprednisolone treatment 48 mg daily for myasthenia gravis was started 9 days after admission. As can be seen in Table 1 serum calcium and phosphorus levels were essentially unchanged during the treatment. Endocrinologic parameters and biochemical markers of bone metabolism over the course of the treatment are also shown in Table 1. Serum levels of intact PTH calcium and 125-OH2D3 remained high during the treatment. However treatment with methylprednisolone was associated with a marked decrease in the serum intact osteocalcin level and in urinary excretion of deoxypyridinoline. On the other hand nephrogenous cAMP was unchanged.
Calcium phosphate and creatinine in serum and urine were measured with an autoanalyzer Hitachi 736 Autoanalyzer Hitachi Tokyo Japan. Serum ionized calcium level was measured with Ionometer 2 Fresenius Bad Homburg Germany immediately after the blood sampling. Serum intact PTH level was measured by immunoradiometric assay Allegro intact PTH kit Nichols Institute Diagnostics San Juan Capistrano CA reference range 10 to 60 pg/mL. Serum 125-OH2D3 level was measured by radioreceptor assay SRL Tokyo Japan reference range 20 to 60 pg/mL. Serum intact osteocalcin level was measured by enzyme immunoassay Osteocalcin test Teijin Diagnostics Tokyo Japan reference range 0.6 to 7.0 ng/mL. Urine deoxypyridinoline excretion was measured by enzymelinked immunosorbent assay Pyrilinks-DM kit Metro Biosystems Palo Alto CA and was expressed as a ratio to the urinary creatinine concentration reference range 2.1 to 7.6 nmol/L per mmol/L creatinine. cAMP in serum and urine was measured by radioimmunoassay reference range 0.8 to 2.8 nmol/100 mL glomerular filtrate. All samples except for serum ionized calcium measurements were stored at 220C until assay. Discussion.
increased levels of markers of bone formation and bone resorption were consistent with primary hyperparathyroidism. However biochemical markers of bone formation and bone resorption were markedly suppressed by treatment with methylprednisolone for myasthenia gravis whereas serum levels of calcium ionized calcium and intact PTH remained high which indicates that increased calcium release from the bone secondary to stimulated bone resorption may play no pivotal role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism. Serum levels of intact PTH and 125-OH2D3 and nephrogenous cAMP all remained high during treatment with methylprednisolone. These findings suggest that the possible pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism may be attributed to the increased calcium reabsorption in renal distal tubules and the increased intestinal calcium absorption as a result of stimulated production of 125-OH2D3 in renal proximal tubules both of which result from PTH in excess.2Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis has been considered to be caused by suppressed bone formation and enhanced bone resorption.
Changes335THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCESin biochemical bone markers after treatment with methylprednisolone in a patient presented here are in accordance with the results on our previous report.Nordin and Peacock have demonstrated that urinary calcium excretion in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism was lower than would be expected for their degree of hypercalcemia.5 In addition the differences in bone resorption between normal control rats and parathyroidectomized rats could. not explain large differences in plasma calcium levels because calcium flux by bone resorption to blood was wholly offset by a corresponding difference in the rate of bone formation.5 These findings indicate that the kidney is the most important organ in calcium homeostasis.In primary hyperparathyroidism increased serum 125-OH2D3 level is accompanied by hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria. The increased intestinal absorption of calcium secondary to stimulated production of 125-OH2D3 in renal proximal tubule raises the filtered load of calcium through glomeruli and leads to the development of hypercalciuria despite the effect of PTH in increasing the reabsorption of calcium from renal distal tubule.
of its low serum level in sarcoidosis the effect of PTH on the kidney results in increased urinary calcium excretion and decreased tubular absorption. This is consistent with the concept that the renal tubular effect of PTH is essential for the development of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism. Depressive Disorder Associated with Mycophenolate Mofetil. Immunosuppressive pharmacologic agents are associated with a diverse array of adverse drug reactions. One of these agents mycophenolate mofetil is indicated for prevention of allogeneic organ transplant rejection and has recently been evaluated for treatment of autoimmune disease states including myasthenia gravis. Although the prescribing information for mycophenolate mofetil reports depression as an adverse event no descriptions of the onset or manifestation of this idiosyncratic reaction have been published. This case report describes a 64-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis who received mycophenolate mofetil and developed a severe depressive disorder requiring hospitalization 4 days after the start of therapy. The drug was discontinued and she was treated with sertraline quetiapine and clonazepam. Within 2 days after mycophenolate mofetil discontinuation the patients depressive symptoms had markedly improved.
After day 2 of this rechallenge the patient reported a substantial increase in her depressive symptoms. Treatment was discontinued again with improvement in the patients symptoms within 2 days. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the patients development of depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Future evaluations of mycophenolate mofetil should include an assessment of psychological adverse effects. In addition postmarketing surveillance should be encouraged to further delineate the association between depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Depressive Disorder Associated with Mycophenolate MofetilHeather M. Draper Pharm.D.Immunosuppressive pharmacologic agents are associated with a diverse array of adverse drug reactions. One of these agents mycophenolate mofetil is indicated for prevention of allogeneic organ transplant rejection and has recently been evaluated for treatment of autoimmune disease states including myasthenia gravis. Although the prescribing information for mycophenolate mofetil reports depression as an adverse event no descriptions of the onset or manifestation of this idiosyncratic reaction have been published.
The drug was discontinued and she was treated with sertraline quetiapine and clonazepam. Within 2 days after mycophenolate mofetil discontinuation the patients depressive symptoms had markedly improved. Eight days later mycophenolate mofetil was reintroduced under direct observation. After day 2 of this rechallenge the patient reported a substantial increase in her depressive symptoms. Treatment was discontinued again with improvement in the patients symptoms within 2 days. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the patients development of depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Future evaluations of mycophenolate mofetil should include an assessment of psychological adverse effects. In addition postmarketing surveillance should be encouraged to further delineate the association between depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Key Words mycophenolate mofetil depression adverse drug reactions immunosuppression immunosuppressive agents myasthenia gravis. Pharmacotherapy 2008281136139Immunosuppressive pharmacologic agents are associated with a diverse array of adverse reactions that can increase morbidity and mortality.
e reports successful use of this agent for treatment of autoimmune disease states including myasthenia gravis.5 6 The utility of mycophenolate mofetil for treating myasthenia gravis stems from the drugs ability to inhibit synthesis of purine nucleotides thereby suppressing the proliferative response of both T and B lymphocytes. This decreases antibody production which then provides the immunosuppressive effect.Depression is listed as an adverse effect in theFrom the Department of Clinical Pharmacy College of Pharmacy University of Tennessee Knoxville Tennessee.Address reprint requests to Heather M. Draper Pharm.D. Department of Clinical Pharmacy College of Pharmacy University of Tennessee 1924 Alcoa Highway Box 117 Knoxville TN 37920 e -mail hdraperutmem.edu.DEPRESSIVE DISORDER ASSOCIATED WITH MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL Drapermycophenolate mofetil prescribing information.4 However to my knowledge no descriptions have been published regarding the onset or manifestation of depression associated with the use of mycophenolate mofetil for any indication. This case report describes a patient with myasthenia gravis who was hospitalized for a depressive disorder after the start of mycophenolate mofetil therapy and whose symptoms recurred on rechallenge. Case Report.
She was admitted with the diagnosis of severe major depressive disorder without psychotic features and anxiety disorder not otherwise specified. On questioning the patient reported that she had started oral mycophenolate mofetil 500 mg once/day for treatment of myasthenia gravis 1 week before her admission. She stated that on day 4 of this therapy she experienced a rapid onset of severe depression with feelings of hopelessness despair and increased tearfulness and that everything seemed dark.The patient appeared profoundly depressed and tearful. She was alert calm and cooperative but had difficulty with conversation. Her speech and thought processes were slowed. She expressed feelings of helplessness fear and despair and an overall loss of interest and desire. She reported a lack of energy despite increased sleep and a decreased appetite. The patient denied suicidal or homicidal ideation and her judgment and insight remained fair and intact.
Her preadmission drug therapy consisted of metformin 500 mg twice/day amlodipine 5 mg/day pantoprazole 40 mg/day pyridostigmine 30 mg 4 times/day lovastatin 40 mg/day and warfarin 2.5 mg/day. She had been diagnosed with anxiety disorder more than 1 year before this admission which was treated with fluoxetine 20 mg twice/day and clonazepam 0.5 mg twice/day and 1 mg atbedtime. On admission the patients laboratory analysis included a complete metabolic profile complete blood count and thyroid-stimulating hormone and vitamin B12 levels. No significant abnormalities were revealed and her vital signs were within normal limits. Mycophenolate mofetil was discontinued sertraline 75 mg/day and quetiapine 25 mg/day were started and clonazepam was continued at her previous dosage. Within 2 days after drug discontinuation the patient reported that her depressive symptoms were much better. Her speech and thought processes had improved hope had been restored and fear and tearfulness had subsided.Eight days later mycophenolate mofetil was reintroduced under direct observation. After day 2 of this rechallenge therapy the patient reported a substantial increase in hopelessness and tearfulness. Treatment was discontinued again with reported improvement in the patients symptoms within 2 days.
After a 12-day hospital stay she was discharged home her symptoms were resolved and her rating on the Global Assessment of Functioning was 8090 indicating absent or minimal symptoms good functioning in all areas interest and involvement in a wide range of activities social effectiveness general satisfaction with life and problems or concerns of only an everyday nature. Discussion. Reports indicate that the lifetime incidence of depression in patients with myasthenia gravis is 3342% which is similar to that in patients with other chronic illnesses including other neurologic or neuromuscular diseases.7 8 Depression in patients with myasthenia gravis is thought to be associated with the onset of symptoms the diagnosis of the disease and possibly with disease exacerbations.8 A potential difficulty arises in the diagnosis of depression in patients with myasthenia gravis many o. f the tools used to diagnose depression assess symptoms and manifestations common to both depression and myasthenia gravis.
ations in mood energy depression and anxiety. These clinical conditions have become a focus of immunosuppressive therapy because failure to diagnose and adequately treat psychological disease states in patients receiving immunosuppressants can increase the rate of morbidity and mortality and decrease adherence to drug therapy.9 10 Furthermore manifestations of depression and anxiety can significantly affect quality of life.11Most of the literature evaluating the psychological adverse effects from immunosuppressive therapy is derived from th. e transplantation literature. However additional evidence can be found in the literature from patients with other disease states that require immunosuppression. Of the literature evaluating the use of mycophenolate mofetil for treatment of myasthenia gravis only one article mentioned depression as an adverse event occurring with this therapy.5 In that retrospective analysis the authors reported only one instance in which the patient attributed the depression to mycophenolate mofetil however the authors did not elaborate further on this adverse effect.Through a review of the literature a causal relationship was identified between depression and several a.
y knowledge describe the onset or manifestations of depression in patients receiving mycophenolate mofetil therapy.A direct causal relationship of drug-induced depression is difficult to establish due to conflicting information regarding the association between drug therapy and depressive disorders.18 19 In addition the relationship between depression and concomitant medical conditions can further complicate the situation. For example this patients case involved confounding variables that have been associated with development of depressive disorders including the diagnoses of Parkinsons disease and myasthenia gravis.18However development of a drug-induced depressive disorder was strongly suggested by the temporal relationship between onset of her symptoms and start of therapy resolution of symptoms after drug discontinuation and recurrence of symptoms after mycophenolate mofetil was reintroduced. Moreover our patient was receiving treatment for her chronic medical conditions and her symptoms remained under control.
by the hypothalamicpituitary-adrenal axis and the sympathetic nervous system. For example patients diagnosed with a major depressive disorder have displayed a depressed lymphocytic response compared with nondepressed controls.24 The degree of immunosuppression may be related to the severity of depression demonstrating a positive correlation between increasing severity of immunosuppression and increasing severity of depression.21 24Also because the relationship between the immune and central nervous systems is bidirectional alterations in the immune system specifically che. mically induced immunosuppressioncould result in depression. However research linking depression to immune system activation has yielded contradictory results.2124 This conflicting information appears to be a result of multifactorial differences in study populations which emphasizes the importance of considering subtypes of depression severity and duration of illness and age at symptom onset in study patients. Further research is needed to define the mechanistic link between immunosuppressive therapy and depression. Conclusion. Depression is listed as an adverse event in the mycophenolate mofetil prescribing information.
This case report describes a patient with a depressive138DEPRESSIVE DISORDER ASSOCIATED WITH MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL Draperdisorder that required hospitalization and was associated with the start of and rechallenge with mycophenolate mofetil therapy. The temporal relationship between onset of symptoms and start of therapy resolution of symptoms after drug discontinuation and recurrence of symptoms after rechallenge strongly suggested a druginduced depressive disorder.Psychological adverse effects associated with immunosuppressive therapy may affect patient outcomes. Thus prompt accurate diagnosis and treatment are necessary to avoid increased rates of morbidity and mortality and to prevent decreased adherence to drug therapy. Future evaluations should include an assessment of psychological adverse effects. In addition postmarketing surveillance should be encouraged to further delineate the association between depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Acknowledgment. The author would like to thank Kevin M. Furmaga Pharm.D. BCPP for his assistance in the preparation of this manuscript. Pleural dissemination of thymoma showing tumor regression after combined corticosteroid and tacrolimus therapy.
A maintenance dose of prednisolone for myasthenia gravis could not shrink the size of the disseminated thymoma but prednisolone N30 mg daily succeeded in reducing the size of the tumor. Moreover a combination with tacrolimus enabled the daily dose of prednisolone to be tapered off without recurrence of myasthenia gravis and the disseminated thymoma almost disappeared. A moderate or higher dosage of corticosteroids with tacrolimus may in some cases be an effective procedure for pleural dissemination of thymoma. Treatment should be undertaken on a trial basis for patients not indicated for surgery radiotherapy or chemotherapy. 2006 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. We present the case of an elderly woman with myasthenia gravis who had pleural dissemination of thymoma reduced by treatments with a moderate dose of corticosteroids and a conventional dose of tacrolimus. A maintenance dose of prednisolone for myasthenia gravis could not shrink the size of the disseminated thymoma but prednisolone N30 mg daily succeeded in reducing the size of the tumor.
A moderate or higher dosage of corticosteroids with tacrolimus may in some cases be an effective procedure for pleural dissemination of thymoma. Treatment should be undertaken on a trial basis for patients not indicated for surgery radiotherapy or chemotherapy. 2006 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Invasive thymoma Myasthenia gravis Pleural dissemination Corticosteroid Tacrolimus. 1 end. Introduction. The recurrence of invasive thymoma is often observed with pleural dissemination being the most frequent recurrent type 12. However the treatment of pleural dissemination of a thymoma has not been established and recurrences are often treated with a combined therapy that can include corticosteroids chemotherapy surgery and radiation 3. The effectiveness of corticosteroid therapy for an invasive thymoma has already been reported 3 but whether corticosteroids are effective in multiple pleural disseminated thymomas and what might be an adequate dose have not yet been established.We present a case of pleural dissemination of thymoma with myasthenia gravis showing tumor regression after a combined therapy with corticosteroids and tacrolimus.
Tel. 81 88 880 2343 fax 81 88 880 2344. E-mail address tagumuse.ocn.ne.jp T. Taguchi.0953-6205/ - see front matter  2006 European Federation of Internal Medicine doi10.1016/j.ejim.2006.04.014. 2 end. Case report. A 75-year-old woman had been diagnosed as having myasthenia gravis and thymoma at the age of 48 and had undergone extended thymectomy and radiotherapy. Myasthenia gravis had been controlled for approximately 20 years by oral administration of prednisolone PSL. In 1999 at the age of 69 chest computed tomography CT revealed the presence of several small masses attached to the bilateral visceral pleuras Fig. 1 1999 and the tumors had gradually increased with time. In 2002 at the age of 72 the tumor attached to the visceral pleura in the right lung had a maximum diameter of 3.1 cm Fig. 1 August 2002 and the others in the left lung were mostly about 1.0 cm. Percutaneous CT fluoroscopyguided biopsies were taken of the tumors in August 2002. Histologic examination revealed a well-differentiated epithelial thymoma with preserved lobular architecture. No heteromorphous nuclei were observed in the thymic epithelial cells. Immunohistological study showed positive reactivities for CD57 and MIB-1 but negative reactivity for HBME-1.
The end. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.patient did not want to receive surgical therapy and chemotherapy because of her advanced age and disturbed respiratory function. Therefore follow-up was continued under corticosteroid therapy 15 mg on alternate days.In 2004 at the age of 74 the patient twice suffered from dyspnea due to a myasthenic crisis. The first episode occurred in May 2004 and PSL was then increased to 30 mg/day. The size of the tumor in the right lung pleura was enlarged on CT imaging taken 2 months previously Fig. 1 March 2004 but repeated CT scan analyses revealed improvement in the tumor size after 2 months of PSL treatment at 30 mg/day Fig. 1 July 2004. A second episode occurred in December 2004. Steroid pulse therapy 1000 mg methylprednisolone daily for 3 days and oral administration of PSL beginning at 50 mg/day were initiated under managed ventilatory care. Subsequently she was administered a low dose of tacrolimus 3 mg/day in addition to PSL. After the combined treatment the daily dose of PSL was tapered off to 15 mg/day and CT scan analysis revealed a remarkable shrinking of the tumor at the right lung pleura. The tumor eventually almost disappeared with no recurrence of myasthenia gravis Fig. 1 October 2005. 3 end. Discussion.
Our patient was found to have disseminated thymoma with a slowly progressive course in the pleura about 20 years after thymomectomy. There was no correlation between the enlargement of the thymoma and the anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody value after the tumor was detected Fig. 1 end. It has also been reported that the activity of myasthenia gravis does not affect the prognosis of thymoma 4.It is well known that corticosteroid therapy reduces not only the level of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody but also the tumor size of an invasive thymoma 3. However it has not yet been established whether PSL can have an effect on multiple disseminated thymomas or what dosage should be used. In ourcase 30 mg/day and higher doses of PSL resulted in a reduction in tumor size as shown on CT images Fig. 1 while 1520mg PSL on alternate days did not cause shrinkage of the tumor.Recently a low dose of tacrolimus has been reported to produce an improvement in myasthenia symptoms in association with decreases in anti-acetylcholine antibodies 5. Tacrolimus is a new immunosuppressive agent that acts through the selective inhibition of helper-T-cell activation 6.
1 end. Ten months after initiating the combined treatment the disseminated thymoma had almost disappeared Fig. 1 October 2005.Tacrolimus may be an effective agent for myasthenia gravis and disseminated thymoma. However it should be administered with caution due to its potential toxic effects such as cardiomyopathy nephrotoxicity and hematological disorders when given in high doses 6.In summary we presented a rare case with pleural dissemination of a thymoma that was reduced by treatments with corticosteroids and tacrolimus. Moderate doses of corticosteroids with tacrolimus may in some cases be an effective procedure for pleural dissemination of thymoma and such treatment should be undertaken on a trial basis for patients not indicated for surgery radiotherapy or chemotherapy. 4 end. Learning point. The administration of moderate or high dosages of corticosteroids with tacrolimus may in some cases be effective for treating pleural dissemination of thymoma. The Role of Osteopontin and Its Gene on Glucocorticoid Response in Myasthenia Gravis.
e Washington University Washington DC United States 7 Department of Pathology Peking Union Medical College Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Science Beijing China 8 Department of Neurology Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University Qingdao China. May 2017  Volume 8  Article 2301Original research published 31 May 2017 doi 10.3389/fneur.2017.00230Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.orgEdited by Ghazala HayatSaint Louis University United StatesReviewed by Janice C. WongBrigham and Womens Hospital/ Massachusetts General HospitalUnited States Howard SanderNew York University School of Medicine United StatesA. Arturo Leis Methodist RehabilitationCenter United StatesCorrespondence Hai-Feng Lidrlhf163.com Henry J. Kaminskihkaminskimfa.gwu.eduThese authors have contributed equally to this work.Specialty section This article was submitted toNeuromuscular Diseases a section of the journal Frontiers in NeurologyReceived 13February2017 Accepted 11May2017 Published 31May2017Citation XieY LiH-F SunL KusnerLLWangS MengY ZhangX HongY GaoX LiY and KaminskiHJ 2017The Role of Osteopontin and Its Gene on Glucocorticoid Responsein Myasthenia Gravis. Front end. Neurol end.
Kusner56 Shuhui Wang2 Yunxiao Meng7 Xu Zhang8 Yu Hong8 Xiang Gao8 Yao Li2 and Henry J. Kaminski1561 Department of Neurology The George Washington University Washington DC United States 2 Department of Neurology Beijing Friendship Hospital Capital Medical University Beijing China 3 Department of Neurology Qilu Hospital of Shandong University Jinan China 4 The Key Laboratory of Geriatrics Beijing Hospital Beijing Institute of Geriatrics Ministry of Health Beijing China 5 Department of Pharmacology The George Washington University Washington DC United States 6 Department of Physiolog. y The George Washington University Washington DC United States 7 Department of Pathology Peking Union Medical College Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Science Beijing China 8 Department of Neurology Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University Qingdao ChinaBiomarkers that assess treatment response for patients with the autoimmune disorder myasthenia gravis MG have not been evaluated to a significant extent. We hypothesized the pro-inflammatory cytokine osteopontin OPN may be associated with variability of response to glucocorticoids GCs in patients with MG.
Mean OPN levels were higher in patients compared to healthy controls. Carriers of rs11728697T allele allele definition one of two or more alternative forms of a gene were more frequent in the poorly GC responsive group compared to the GC responsive group indicating an association of rs11728697T allele with GC non-responsiveness. One risk haplotype AGTACT was identified associated with GC non-responsiveness compared with GC responsive MG group. Genetic variations of SPP1 were found associated with the response to GC among MG patients.Keywords myasthenia gravis glucocorticoid osteopontin secreted phosphoprotein 1 quantitative myasthenia gravis scoreinTrODUcTiOnMyasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune disorder caused by antibodies directed against postsynaptic proteins primarily the skeletal muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR. Oral glucocorticoids GCs are the primary therapy 1 2 but response rates to GCs are highly variable among studies ranging from 5 to 30% 37. No clinical or biological markers exist that predict GC responsiveness.
ed phosphoprotein 1.Variables responsive n231 non-responsive n19 p ValueAge of onset years 44.0816.38 42.7419.39 0.734 Gender 0.403Male 87 9 Female 144 10Thymoma 0.056 Absence 176 14 Presence 55 10 Anti-AChR antibody 0.786 Negative 62 4 Positive 161 14 Involved muscles at disease onset 0.581 Ocular muscle 160 12 Generalized muscle 71 7 Thymectomy 0.280 No 203 15 Yes 28 4Disease duration before usage of gcs Within 6months 159 9 0.055 After 6months 72 10 QMGS before treatment median months 6 7 0.9. 92MG myasthenia gravis AChR acetylcholine receptor GC glucocorticoid QMGS quantitative myasthenia gravis score.2Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230a single nucleotide polymorphism SNP in the GC receptor gene as an independent factor associated with short-term GC responsiveness among patients with MG 9.Osteopontin OPN is a pro-inflammatory cytokine and increased circulating levels have been associated with inflammatory muscle diseases and muscular dystrophy 1013 as well as the onset and progression of Crohns disease myocarditis uveitis idiopathic retroperit. oneal fibrosis and rheumatoid arthritis 1416.
We hypothesized that plasma OPN may be a marker of treatment responsiveness and that genetic variations polymorphisms in the secreted phosphoprotein 1 SPP1 gene which encodes OPN are associated with differences in GC responsiveness of patients with MG.We assessed the relationship among clinical characteristics and plasma OPN level of MG patients. Further we evaluated the relationship between SNPs of SPP1 gene and response to a standardized 3-month GC treatment protocol with prospectively collected outcome data. As our primary outcome assessment we used the quantitative MG score QMGS which is a validated scale and was recommended by the MG Foundation of America as the primary clinical outcome measure for clinical trials 18. Several studies using the QMGS have shown that a change of 3 or more points to be clinically meaningful 1921.sUbJecTs anD MeThODsstudy Population We assessed the same cohort as in our separate association study of GR gene polymorphisms and response to GCs 9. Three hundred forty-two consecutively identified MG patients who had not received immunosuppressive agents were recruited and followed from Beijing Friendship Hospital Capital Medical University and Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University.
Fatigable weakness was evident on physical examination. Alternative diagnoses such as central nervous system disorders myopathies and motor neuron disorders were excluded. A positive result in at least one of three was required 1 increased serum level of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody AChRAb 2 decremental response to low frequency repetitive nerve stimulation or 3 positive response to the neostigmine test. Muscle specific kinase patients were excluded.Fifty-two patients were excluded because of a contraindication to GC therapy or refusal to receive GC treatment. The GC treatment was initiated with 0.751mg/kg/day of prednisone or equivalent methylprednisolone. The dosage of GCs was tapered gradually when definite improvement was appreciated or was maintained for 3 months. Patients who had received plasma exchange intravenous immunoglobulin or immunosuppressants during the study period were excluded. Patients who were excluded for other causes are described in Figure1. DNA samplesfrom seven patients were depleted from use in our previous study 9. Two hundred fifty patient samples underwent SPP1 genotyping. A subset of 74 MG patients and 50 healthy controls underwent evaluation for plasma for OPN levels.
Patients were followed monthly for 3months after treatment initiation and QMGS determined by a physician trained in its performance 18. The control group consisted of 474 healthy individuals age-matched to the study population andTable 2  Twelve snPs in healthy control gc responsive and gc non-responsive groups.snP major/minor Function genetic modelscontrolc n474 responsivec n231non-responsivec n19hWe p ValueaOrb 95% cirs2728127 5 near ALLELIC 584/364 290/170 26/12 0.41 0.508 0.787 0.3871.601A/G Gene GENO 169/246/59 88/114/28 9/8/2 0.74 DOM 169/305 88/142 9/10 0.44 0.69 0.271.76 REC 415/59 202/28 17/2 0.83 0.85 0.193.87rs2853744. 5 near ALLELIC 578/370 290/170 26/12 0.12 0.508 0.787 0.3871.601G/T Gene GENO 168/242/64 88/114/28 9/8/2 0.74 DOM 168/306 88/142 9/10 0.44 0.69 0.271.76 REC 410/64 202/28 17/2 0.83 0.85 0.193.87rs11730582 5 near ALLELIC 613/335 310/152 25/13 0.48 0.701 1.146 0.5712.301T/C Gene GENO 202/209/63 104/102/25 6/13/0 0.035 DOM 202/272 104/127 6/13 0.25 1.77 0.654.83 REC 411/63 206/25 19/0 0.232 0.92 0.880.95rs11439060 5 near ALLELIC 579/369 288/174 26/12 0.15 0.456 0.764 0.3761.553/G Gene GENO 169/241.
5 0.58 0.132.61rs6840362 Intron 3 ALLELIC 909/39 447/15 36/2 1 0.378 1.656 0.3647.524C/T GENO 435/39/0 216/15/0 17/2/0 0.53 DOM 435/39 216/15 17/2 0.63 1.69 0.368.03 REC 474/0 231/0 19/0 NA NArs4754 Exon 6 ALLELIC 703/245 335/127 29/9 0.55 0.612 0.819 0.3771.777Continued 3Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230seen during the study period at each participating institution. All study participants were northern Han Chinese and nonconsanguineous. Change of QMGS was used as a primary efficacy measurement. Improvement of 3 or greater points of the QMGS or a QMGS becoming 0 identified a patient as being responsive to GCs 21 23. The study was approved by ethical committees of the hospitals and all participants provided written informed consent.enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay elisa Blood samples were collected in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid from patients prior to the initiation of GC or any other immunotherapy. Plasma was isolated and stored at 80C until evaluation. The concentration of OPN was determined by the quantitative sandwich ELISA using the Quantikine kit RD Systems Minneapolis MN USA. Antibodies against AChR AChRAb was detected by using ELISA kit RSR Limited Cardiff UK 24.
The results were expressed as inhibition rate of AChR binding calculated according to the formula in the instructionsInhibition rate %  100  test sample absorbance/negative control absorbance.snP selection and genotyping Twelve SNPs variations in single base pairs in a DNA sequence were selected based on previous reports and information from NCBI dbSNP and HapMap database CHB database HapMap phase version 3 release 27 2009 February in an attempt to cover the majority of the SPP1 gene region by l. inkage disequilibrium LD. Among the 12 SNPs 1 tag SNP rs2853749 was selected using the HapMap database with the software as previously described and 11 SNPs rs2728127 rs2853744 rs11730582 rs11439060 rs11728697 rs6840362 rs4754 rs1126616 rs4660 rs1126772 and rs9138 were previously reported 2533. Ten of these have functional potential rs2728127 rs2853744 rs11730582 rs11439060 in the 5 near gene rs11728697 rs4754 rs1126616 rs4660 in coding region rs1126772 rs9138 in 3-untranslated region. One SNP has been previously investigated rs6840362 which showed a significant difference allele distribution in European American patients with SLE 30.
0 Exon 7 ALLELIC 948/0 480/0 20/0 NA NA NAG/A GENO 948/0/0 240/0/0 10/0/0 NA DOM 948/0 240/0 10/0 NA NA REC 948/0 240/0 10/0 NA NArs1126772 3 UTR ALLELIC 685/263 340/122 29/9 0.42 0.714 0.865 0.3981.879A/G GENO 251/183/40 125/90/16 10/9/0 0.24 DOM 251/223 125/106 10/9 0.9 1.06 0.422.71 REC 434/40 215/16 19/0 0.619 0.92 0.880.95rs9138 3 UTR ALLELIC 702/246 334/128 29/9 0.47 0.593 0.81 0.3731.758GENO 263/176/35 119/96/16 11/7/1 0.86 DOM 263/211 119/112 11/8 0.59 0.77 0.301.99 REC 439/35 215/16 18/. 1 0.77 0.75 0.095.96p Value for HardyWeinberg equilibrium test among healthy controls. abComparison between GC responsive MG with GC non-responsive MG. cMajor homozygotes/heterozygotes/minor homozygotes. ALLELIC allelic test GENO genotypic test DOM dominant gene action test REC recessive gene action test HWE HardyWeinberg equilibrium NA not applicable GC glucocorticoids MG myasthenia gravis SNP single nucleotide polymorphism. The significant results are highlighted in bold. p<0.05.Table 2  continued4Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230Single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping was performed using a custom-designed SNPscanTM Kit Genesky Biotechnologies Inc. Shanghai China.
Concordance for duplicate samples was 100% for all assays.statistical analysis Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS Statistics 13 SPSS Corporation Chicago IL USA SHEsis software Bio-X Life Science Research Center Shanghai China Haploview 4.2 software and GraphPad Prism 5 GraphPad Software Inc. La Jolla CA USA. A two-side comparison with p<0.05 was considered statistically significant. The database constructed using SQL server contains data pertaining to the SNPs clinical features and treatment and clinical follow-up of patients.The normality of the data was tested using the method of Kolmogorov and Smirnov. Continuous variables were presented as meanSD or median 25th and 75th percentiles categorical variables were presented as a percentage. Differences between groups were analyzed with independent sampled t test or the Mann Whitney U-test for continuous variables and by chi-square test or Fisher exact test for categorical variables. The association between the GC efficacy and MG phenotype and SPP1 genotypes was examined by multivariate regression analysis. In this pilot study we did not make a correction for multiple comparisons. The Haploview 4.2 software was used to calculate pairwise LD of SNPs and construct haplotype blocks.
Haplotype frequencies were estimated with PartitionLigationCombinationSubdivision Expectation Maximization algorithm implemented in SHEsis software.Functional annotation and expression Quantitative Trait locus eQTl analysis Functional annotations of SNPs were investigated using RegulomeDB a database which provides assessment of whether SNPs are located in known or predicted regulatory elements including regions of DNase I hypersensitivity binding sites for transcription factors TFs and promoter . regions that regulate transcription 34.With the aim of exploring the molecular basis of the observed associations eQTLs analysis was performed by using published cell-specific eQTL dataset 35.resUlTs. Patient characteristics. The study cohort consisted of 250 patients of which 154 61.6% were women Table1. The onset age ranged from 15 to 80years mean 43.98  16.59 years. The disease duration prior to GC therapy ranged from 0.2 to 48months with a median duration of 4months interquartile range of 211months. Among 474 healthy controls 238 were men and 236 are women with an age range of 1478 and median age of 45years.FigUre 2  Osteopontin OPn levels among myasthenia gravis Mg patients and healthy controls.
The MG patients with the highest levels of OPN had lower percentage of positive acetylcholine receptor AChR antibody 37.5 vs 85.94% p0.006 Figure3c. No difference in age of disease onset gender presence of thymoma involved muscle at disease onset duration before glucocorticoid GC treatment quantitative MG score QMGS at the sample collection and change of QMGS after 3months GC treatment p0.667 0.227 0.641 1.00 1.00 0.373 0.606 respectively Figures3abDh.5Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230. Response to GCs. Quantitative MG score ranged from 1 to 35 median QMGS was 6 interquartile ranged from 4 to 11 at study onset and after 3months of treatment a significant reduction in QMGS was observed ranging from 0 to 29 points median QMGS was 1 interquartile ranged from 0 to 3 p<0.0001. The change in QMGS ranged from 2 to 18 median QMGS was 5 interquartile ranged from 3 to 8.Two hundred thirty-one patients 92.4% were considered GC responsive and 19 7.6% were considered GC non-responsive. Clinical characteristics of the patients are summarized in Table1.
50.1938.74ng/ml p0.013 Figure2. We performed a subgroup analysis of the patients with the highest OPN levels mean2 SD of controls 127.67ng/ml in the study which identified 8 patients and compared them to the remaining 66 patients Figure3. We found that the MG patients with the highest levels of OPN had lower percentage of positive AChRAb 37.5 vs 85.94% p0.006 Figure3C. No difference in onset age gender presence of thymoma involved muscle group at disease onset duration before GCs treatment QMGS at the sample collection and change of QMGS after 3months GC treatment p  0.667 0.227 0.641 1.00 1.00 0.373 0.606 respectively Figures3ABDH was found between the two subgroups.association between SPP1 gene Variation and response to gc The success rates of genotyping the 12 SNPs among MG patients and healthy controls were greater than 99.7%. None of the participants had the rs4660 polymorphism. The genotyping data of 12 SNPs of the healthy controls did not deviate from the Hardy Weinberg equilibrium HWE p  0.11 Table 2. General characteristics of 12 SNPs in the SPP1 gene of patients are shown in Table 2.
No statistically significant differences were observed for the remaining SNPs Table2. No difference iniD haplotype Frequency 2 p Or 95% ciresponsive non-responsive. 1 GTTGTC 0.355 0.316 0.414 0.520 0.792 0.3891.613. end. 2 AGCACT 0.326 0.342 0.003 0.955 1.021 0.5072.053. end. 3 AGTACC 0.219 0.184 0.372 0.542 0.768 0.3281.797. 4 AGTACT 0.065 0.158 4.185 0.041 2.606 1.0096.729Haplotypes constructed by rs2728127 rs2853744 rs11730582 rs11439060 rs2853749 and rs11728697. The significant results are highlighted in bold. p<0.05.6Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230the frequency of the rs11728697 T carriers was observed between MG patients and healthy control groups 66 vs 66% dominant model p0.99.The association between SPP1 gene variation and responses to GCs was further examined by multivariate logistic regression analysis with GC non-response as the dependent variable and with onset age gender involved muscles at disease onset AChRAb presence of thymoma disease duration. before GC treatment and rs11728697 as independent variables.
According to Haploview the haplotype block structure of the SPP1 gene consists of two blocks. The first block ranges from rs2728127 to rs11728697 rs2728127 rs2853744 rs11730582 rs11439060 rs2853749 and rs11728697 D ranging from 0.93 to 1.0 thesecond from rs4754 to rs9138 rs4754 rs1126616 rs1126772 and rs9138 D ranging from 0.99 to 1.0. A total of four common haplotypes were identified across the first block ranging in frequency from 35.5 to 7.3% in all patients GTTGTC 35.5% AGCACT 32.6% AGTACC 21.5% AGTACT 7.3%. One risk haplotype AGTACT in the first block was identified OR2.61 95% CI1.096.73 p0.041 in the GC non-responsive MG group compared with GC responsive MG group 15.8 vs 6.5% Table 3. Three common haplotypes were identified across the second block ranging in frequency from 46.4 to 27.0% in total patient CTAC 46.4% TCAA 27.0% CTGC 26.2%. No risk haplotype was found across the second block.
No difference in OPN concentrations was found between rs11728697 CC 77.3454.36ng/ml and rs11728697 CTTT 61.8431.68ng/ml.7Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230http//www.regulomedb.org/snp/chr4/88898940 with evidence for eQTL TF binding a matched TF binding motif and location within DNase-sensitive site. rs11728697 is within the region of the binding site of TF regulatory factor X 3 that was detected by Chip-Seq analysis in K562 cell line 36. rs11728697 was found to be linked with rs12502049 D0.958 and R20.724 which was identified as score 1f with evidence for mapping to a predicted TF binding site and/or within a DNase I sensitivity peak and correlating with gene expression. rs12502049 is known to regulate the expression of SPP1 gene that was detected by eQTL analysis in a lymphoblastoid cell line 37. DiscUssiOn. We identified an SNP in the SPP1 gene rs11728697 which was associated a poor response to GC treatment among patients with MG. One risk haplotype AGTACT containing a mutation at this SNP was identified among the GC non-responsive patients compared with the GC responsive patients.
Presently there is no evidence of a direct interaction between OPN and GC response pathways however OPN influences T and B cell function which provides indirect pathways that could be associated with GC treatment responsiveness 38. Further rs11728697 is in a location of the SPP1 gene that may bind transcriptional factors offering a mechanism for GC effect.Previous studies of genetic variations of response to GC therapy in autoimmune or inflammatory disorders are limited. Inves tigation of GC responsiveness in SLE identified SNP associations in the GC receptor gene 39. We also identified an SNP in the GC receptor gene that was associated with a poor treatment response among patients with MG 9. A study of Duchenne muscular dystrophy found an rs28357094 polymorphism which lies in the gene promoter of SPP1 to be associated with GC response. In this study we aimed to explore whether polymorphisms in thegene of an immuno-modulating protein was associated with GC responsiveness in MG.There is no accepted definition of treatment response for MG therapeutics which is a limitation of our investigation. As more precise clinical and biological definitions of treatment response are identified genetic and biomarker studies may identify more robust associations.
Several studies have indicated that an improvement of 3 or more points on the QMG scale is clinically meaningful 1921. Pascuzzi and colleagues treated 116 patients with similar regimens of 6080mg daily of prednisone and with prolonged follow-up 5% were described as unresponsive to treatment 3. Our result is consistent with the findings of this investigation. Others have found higher rates of limited treatment response using less strict definitions from ours. However their study had a longer observational length which would indicate that treatment failure may have been contaminated by patients developing GC complications. A retrospective study over 2 years of observation found 13% of patients were unchanged or worse and in a long-term study of 104 patients 13 percent had no improvement in MG manifestations with treatment 6 7.
We did not appreciate an association of OPN levels with any clinical parameters or genotypes of this SNP. There are several potential explanations. Circulating cytokine levels have disease-related and diurnal variations which may not have been accounted for by this study. The investigation may not have been able to distinguish disease-specific variations due to a lack of statistical power. From the present investigation whether circulating OPN levels or mutations in SPP1 may be predictive of treatment response cannot be determined. SPP1 expression is elevated in muscle of animals with passive transfer MG 41. OPN has been found to be involved in progression of endogenous autoreactive germinal centers leading to enhanced antinuclear antibody production in an animal of lupus 42 which points to the multiple mechanisms that are involved in autoantibody production. No difference in the proportion of rs11728697 T carrier was found in association with the plasma level of OPN. This likely relates to several potential factors impacting circulating levels of OPN including other genetic associations with GC response.In summary increased mean plasma levels of OPN are found among MG patients but these had no relationship to patient demographics or treatment response.
In particular subgroup analyses did not find associations with clinical characteristics of patients but conclusions are limited because of small sample sizes. A larger validation study will be required8 Xie et al. OPN and MG Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230 to confirm these observations. For MG and other autoimmune disorders it is critical to move toward identification of markers that predict treatment response with the intent of providing individual treatment 43. eThics sTaTeMenT The study was approved by ethical committees of Beijing Friendship Hospital Capital Medical University and Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University and all participants provided informed consent. aUThOr cOnTribUTiOns YX H-FL and HK conceptualized and designed the study interpreted the data and wrote the manuscript. LS designed the genotyping experiment and performed bioinformatics analysis. LK contributed to discussion. H-FL SW XZ XG and YL diagnosed and treated patients for this study. YX LS and YH performed statistical analysis. YM maintained the database and determined the pathologic diagnosis for the study.
The authors thank Hong-jun Hao Department of Neurology Peking University First Hospital for anti-AChR Ab testing. FUnDing end. The present study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 81070963 to H-FL No. 81400068 to YM Beijing Natural Science Foundation No. 7142042 to YX and Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation No. ZR2010HM019 to H-FL. The Meta A. Neumann endowment provided additional support HK. reFerences 1. Meriggioli MN Sanders DB. Autoimmune myasthenia gravis emerging clinical and biological heterogeneity. Lancet Neurol 2009 8547590. doi10.1016/S1474-44220970063-8 2. Richman DP Agius MA. Treatment of autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2003 6112165261. doi10.1212/01.WNL.0000098887.24618. A0 3 end. Pascuzzi RM Coslett HB Johns TR. Long-term corticosteroid treatment of myasthenia gravis report of 116 patients. Ann Neurol 1984 1532918. doi10.1002/ana.410150316 4. Skeie GO Apostolski S Evoli A Gilhus NE Illa I Harms L etal. Guidelines for treatment of autoimmune neuromuscular transmission disorders. Eur J Neurol 2010 177893902. doi10.1111/j.1468-1331.2010.03019.x 5. Sghirlanzoni A Peluchetti D Mantegazza R Fiacchino F Cornelio F. Myasthenia gravis prolonged treatment with steroids. Neurology 1984 3421704. doi10.1212/WNL.34.2.170 6.
Effectiveness of steroid treatment in myasthenia gravis a retrospective study. Acta Neurol Scand 1991 841339. doi10.1111/j.1600-0404.1991. tb04899.x 7. Evoli A Batocchi AP Palmisani MT Lo Monaco M Tonali P. Long-term results of corticosteroid therapy in patients with myasthenia gravis. Eur Neurol 1992 3213743. doi10.1159/000116785 8. Ramamoorthy S Cidlowski JA. Corticosteroids mechanisms of action in health and disease. Rheum Dis Clin North Am 2016 4211531. doi10.1016/j.rdc.2015.08.002 9. Xie Y Meng Y Li HF Hong Y Sun L Zhu X etal. GR gene polymorphism is associated with inter-subject variability in response to glucocorticoids in patients with myasthenia gravis. Eur J Neurol 2016 23813729. doi10.1111/ene.13040 10. Kyriakides T Pegoraro E Hoffman EP Piva L Cagnin S Lanfranchi G etal. SPP1 genotype is a determinant of disease severity in Duchenne muscular dystrophy predicting the severity of Duchenne muscular dystrophy implications for treatment. Neurology 2011 77201858. doi10.1212/ WNL.0b013e318239b9ae author reply 9 11. Glas J Seiderer J Bayrle C Wetzke M Fries C Tillack C etal. The role of osteopontin OPN/SPP1 haplotypes in the susceptibility to Crohns disease. PLoS One 2011 612e29309. doi10.1371/journal.pone.0029309 12. Shin T Ahn M Kim H Kim HM Matsumoto Y.
J Vet Med Sci 2006 68437982. doi10.1292/jvms.68.379 13. Hikita ST Vistica BP Jones HR Keswani JR Watson MM Ericson VR etal. Osteopontin is proinflammatory in experimental autoimmune uveitis. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 2006 4710443543. doi10.1167/iovs.06-0064 14. Binder M Christoph S Sehnert B Uhl M Peter HH Voll RE etal. Elevated serum osteopontin levels in idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis. Clin Exp Rheumatol 2012 3057725. 15 end. Song JJ Hwang I Cho KH Garcia MA Kim AJ Wang TH et al. Plasma carboxypeptidase B downregulates inflammatory responses in autoimmune arthritis. J Clin Invest 2011 1219351727. doi10.1172/JCI46387 16. Wang KX Denhardt DT. Osteopontin role in immune regulation and stress responses. Cytokine Growth Factor Rev 2008 195633345. doi10.1016/j. cytogfr.2008.08.001 17. van den Bergen JC Hiller M Bhringer S Vijfhuizen L Ginjaar HB Chaouch A etal. Validation of genetic modifiers for Duchenne muscular dystrophy a multicentre study assessing SPP1 and LTBP4 variants. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2015 861010605. doi10.1136/ jnnp-2014-308409 18. Jaretzki A III Barohn RJ Ernstoff RM Kaminski HJ Keesey JC Penn AS et al. Myasthenia gravis recommendations for clinical research standards.
Neurology 2000 5511623. doi10.1212/ WNL.55.1.16 19. Howard JF Jr. Barohn RJ Cutter GR Freimer M Juel VC Mozaffar T etal. A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled phase II study of eculizumab in patients with refractory generalized myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2013 4817684. doi10.1002/mus.23839 20. Wolfe GI Barohn RJ Sanders DB McDermott MP Muscle Study G. Comparison of outcome measures from a trial of mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2008 385142933. doi10.1002/ mus.21142 21. Bedlack RS Simel DL Bosworth H Samsa G Tucker-Lipscomb B Sanders DB. Quantitative myasthenia gravis score assessment of responsiveness and longitudinal validity. Neurology 2005 6411196870. doi10.1212/01. WNL.0000163988.28892.79 22. Aarli JA end. Myasthenia gravis in the elderly is it different Ann N Y Acad Sci 2008 113223843. doi10.1196/annals.1405.040 23. Barohn RJ McIntire D Herbelin L Wolfe GI Nations S Bryan WW. Reliability testing of the quantitative myasthenia gravis score. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1998 84176972. doi10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb11015.x 24. Hewer R Matthews I Chen S McGrath V Evans M Roberts E etal. A sensitive non-isotopic assay for acetylcholine receptor autoantibodies. Clin Chim Acta 2006 3641215966. doi10.1016/j.cccn.2005.05.0359 Xie et al.
Han B Kang HM Seo MS Zaitlen N Eskin E. Efficient association study design via power-optimized tag SNP selection. Ann Hum Genet 2008 72683447. doi10.1111/j.1469-1809.2008.00469.x 26. Ramchandani D Weber GF. An osteopontin promoter polymorphism is associated with aggressiveness in breast cancer. Oncol Rep 2013 30418608. doi10.3892/or.2013.2632 27. Wang J Nong L Wei Y Qin S Zhou Y Tang Y. Association of osteopontin polymorphisms with nasopharyngeal carcinoma risk. Hum Immunol 2014 7517680. doi10.1016/j.humimm.2013.09.014 28. Gazal S Sacre K Allanore Y Teruel M Goodall AH The CARDIOGENICS Consortium etal. Identification of secreted phosphoprotein 1 gene as a new rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility gene. Ann Rheum Dis 2015 743e19. doi10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204581 29. Wang JL Nong LG Tang YJ Wei YS Yang FL Wang CF. Correlation between OPN gene polymorphisms and the risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Med Oncol 2014 31720. doi10.1007/s12032-014-0020-x 30. Han S Guthridge JM Harley IT Sestak AL Kim-Howard X Kaufman KM etal. Osteopontin and systemic lupus erythematosus association a probable gene-gender interaction. PLoS One 2008 33e0001757. doi10.1371/ journal.pone.0001757 31. Arjomandi M Galanter JM Choudhry S Eng C Hu D Beckman K et al.
Pediatr Allergy Immunol Pulmonol 2011 24420714. doi10.1089/ped.2011.0095 32. Juge PA van Steenbergen HW Constantin A Tobon GJ Schaeverbeke T Gazal S et al. SPP1 rs9138 variant contributes to the severity of radiological damage in anti-citrullinated protein autoantibody-negative rheumatoid arthritis. Ann Rheum Dis 2014 731018403. doi10.1136/ annrheumdis-2014-205539 33. Mi Y Ren K Dai F Zhu L Feng N. OPN gene polymorphisms rs17524488 GG/G rs11730582 T/C and rs9138 C/A and cancer risk in a Chinese population. Sci Rep 2015 514164. doi10.1038/srep14164 34. Xie D Boyle AP Wu L Zhai J Kawli T Snyder M. Dynamic trans-acting factor colocalization in human cells. Cell 2013 155371324. doi10.1016/j. cell.2013.09.043 35. Fairfax BP Makino S Radhakrishnan J Plant K Leslie S Dilthey A et al. Genetics of gene expression in primary immune cells identifies cell type-specific master regulators and roles of HLA alleles. Nat Genet 2012 44550210. doi10.1038/ng.2205 36. Jolma A Kivioja T Toivonen J Cheng L Wei G Enge M etal. Multiplexed massively parallel SELEX for characterization of human transcription factor binding specificities. Genome Res 2010 20686173. doi10.1101/ gr.100552.109 37. Veyrieras JB Kudaravalli S Kim SY Dermitzakis ET Gilad Y Stephens M etal.
PLoS Genet 2008 410e1000214. doi10.1371/journal. pgen.1000214 38. Rittling SR Singh R. Osteopontin in immune-mediated diseases. J Dent Res 2015 9412163845. doi10.1177/0022034515605270 39. Zou YF Xu JH Wang F Liu S Tao JH Cai J etal. Association study of glucocorticoid receptor genetic polymorphisms with efficacy of glucocorticoids in systemic lupus erythematosus a prospective cohort study. Autoimmunity 2013 4685316. doi10.3109/08916934.2013.830714 40. Farrugia ME Carmichael C Cupka BJ Warder J Brennan KM Burns TM. The modified Rankin scale to assess disability in myasthenia gravis comparing with other tools. Muscle Nerve 2014 5045017. doi10.1002/mus.24214 41. Zhou Y Kaminski HJ Gong B Cheng G Feuerman JM Kusner L. RNA expression analysis of passive transfer myasthenia supports extraocular muscle as a unique immunological environment. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 2014 557434859. doi10.1167/iovs.14-14422 42. Sakamoto K Fukushima Y Ito K Matsuda M Nagata S Minato N etal. Osteopontin in spontaneous germinal centers inhibits apoptotic cell engulfment and promotes anti-nuclear antibody production in Lupusprone mice. J Immunol 2016 1976217786. doi10.4049/jimmunol. 1600987 43. Benatar M Sanders DB Burns TM Cutter GR Guptill JT Baggi F et al.
Muscle Nerve 2012 45690917. doi10.1002/mus.23330 Conflict of Interest Statement YX received research support from Beijing Natural Science Foundation. H-FL received research support from National Natural Science Foundation of China and Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation. YM received research support from National Natural Science Foundation of China. HK receives grant support from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Illinois and the Muscular Dystrophy Association fees for serving on data and safety monitoring boards from Genentech and Novartis consulting fees from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals UCB Rubius Therapeutics RA Pharmaceuticals and Momenta Pharmaceuticals receiving study medication from Genentech and holding a patent related to technology to focus a complement inhibitor on the neuromuscular junction for the treatment of myasthenia gravis U. .S end. patent no. 8961981 end. LK receives grant support from the Muscular Dystrophy Association. All other authors report no disclosures. Copyright  2017 Xie Li Sun Kusner Wang Meng Zhang Hong Gao Li and Kaminski. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License CC BY.
No use distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms. Myasthenia Gravis Aggravated by Steroid-Induced Isolated Mediastinal Tuberculous Lymphadenitis. Case ReportzzWe report herein the case of a 56-year-old woman with MG aggravated by the activation of isolated mediastinal tuberculous lymphadenitis MTL during corticosteroid administration. The possibility of MTL had been disregarded in the differential diagnosis of aggravation of MG weakness because MTL without pulmonary manifestations is uncommon even in areas where tuberculosis is endemic. 224 Copyright  2010 Korean Neurological AssociationPrint ISSN 1738-6586 / On-line ISSN 2005-5013 10.3988/jcn.2010.6.4.224 CASE REPORT J Clin Neurol 20106224-226. Myasthenia Gravis Aggravated by Steroid-Induced Isolated Mediastinal Tuberculous Lymphadenitis. end. Tai-Seung Nam MDa Man-Seok Park MDa Kang-Ho Choi MDb Hyun-Jung Jung MDb Geum-Jin Yoon MDb Seong-Min Choi MDb Byeong-Chae Kim MDb Myeong-Kyu Kim MDb Ki-Hyun Cho MDb. aDepartment of Neurology Chonnam National University Hwasun Hospital Hwasun Korea bDepartment of Neurology Chonnam National University Medical School Gwangju KoreaReceived June 23 2009 Revised August 11 2009 Accepted August 11 2009. Correspondence.
The possibility of MTL had been disregarded in the differential diagnosis of aggravation of MG weakness because MTL without pulmonary manifestations is uncommon even in areas where tuberculosis is endemic.ConclusionszzThis case suggests that chronic infections such as tuberculosis should be considered in myasthenic patients with progressive exacerbation if definite evidence for aggravating factors of MG is not obtained. J Clin Neurol 20106224-226Key Wordszz tuberculous lymphadenitis myasthenia gravis steroids. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG can be aggravated by various autoimmune or rheumatologic diseases thyroid dysfunction and infectious conditions. These conditions may not only interfere with immunosuppressive treatment but they may also exacerbate myasthenic weakness by immune dysregulation.1Tuberculous infection is common in developed countries due to an increase in immigration the pandemic outbreak of HIV infection and drug-resistant mycobacterium tuberculosis Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.2 Most tuberculous infections are located in the lung but reported 5-15% of such infections affect extrapulmonary tissues.
It has been demonstrated that corticosteroid therapy in patients with unrecognized or untreated tuberculosis can lead to the reactivation ofM. tuberculosis.5 However it is not easy to predict the possibility of isolated MTL due to the lack of constitutional tuberculous symptoms and signs. We present herein a case of myasthenic weakness aggravated by steroid-induced isolated MTL. Case Report. A 56-year-old woman with previously well-controlled MG was admitted to our hospital because of myasthenic symptoms that had progressively aggravated over a period of several months. She did not complain of fever weight loss cough sputum or sweating at nighttime although she did complain of mild gastric discomfort. Her history was unremarkable except for the MG and a family history of tuberculous infection was absent. She had been diagnosed with ocular MG in a private neurology clinic 2 years previously. Her initial symptom was only fluctuating ptosis of the right eyelid which responded to pyridostigmine 180 mg/day.
Computed tomography CT of the chest revealed normal findings. Small dosages of corticosteroids 15 mg/day prednisone and oral pyridostigmine 180-240 mg/day had been administered to control the ocular myasthenia 7 months prior to admission to our hospital. However this patient had been given higher dosages of oral prednisone 30 mg/day and pyridostigmine 360 mg/day because of uncontrolled myasthenic weakness for the 3 months prior to her admission. On admission to our hospital a neurological examination revealed bilateral ptosis ophthalmoplegia diplopia mild dysphagia and generalized muscle weakness in all four extremities without any respiratory symptoms. These symptoms were consistent with grade IIB according to a modified Ossermans classification. The serological AChR-Ab level was 5.4 nmol/L. We performed laboratory evaluations to determine the presence of various risk factors that can exacerbate myasthenic symptoms. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 69 mm/h and the level of C-reactive protein was within the normal limits.
Thyroid function tests were also negative. A chest X-ray did not show any parenchymal pleural or mediastinal involvement. A follow-up chest CT revealed multiple enlarged lymph nodes in the anterior mediastinum without any thymic abnormalities or pulmonary tuberculosis Fig. 1 end. Transbronchial needle aspiration was not performed due to the deep location of the affected lymph node. Lymph node biopsy by mediastinoscopy revealed chronic granulomatous inflammation without any malignant cells. We considered that the newly developed isolated MTL was an aggravating factor for MG. An empirical antituberculous regimen of isoniazid rifampicin ethambutol and pyrazinamide was started. In addition oral pyridostigmine 360 mg/day combined with azathioprine 100 mg/day and no oralprednisone were administered in order to control aggravated myasthenic weakness. Two months after mediastinal lymph node biopsy M. tuberculosis was isolated from the biopsied specimen culture. At a 12-month follow-up examination ocular and bulbar symptoms and generalized muscle weakness persisted. Follow-up chest CT revealed an increase in the size of the previously observed mediastinal lymph nodes.
Three years after the administration of second-line antituberculosis agents the patient achieved complete clinical remission of MG symptoms and she has been off the anticholinesterase inhibitor and azathioprine medication for more than 12 months. Discussion. MG is a neuromuscular transmission disorder that is characterized by easy fatigability and muscle weakness. It is an autoimmune disease that is associated with antibodies such as AChRAb at the neuromuscular junction. Patients with MG have an increased incidence of several associated conditions that may exacerbate the myasthenic weakness including hyper- or hypothyroidism occult infection medical treatment for other disorders emotional stress and pregnancy.1 In our case the only MG-aggravating factor present was isolated MTL. Approximately 85% of all tuberculous infections occur in the lungs the remaining being found in the extrapulmonary tissues.
1 end. The contrast-enhanced computed tomography images of the chest in the patient with mediastinal tuberculous lymphadenitis. A Multiple lymphadenopathies with conglomerate and homogenous enhancement in the anterior mediastinum right lower paratracheal area and aortopulmonary window. B and C Enlarged lymph nodes with central low attenuation and peripheral rim enhancement in both hilar areas arrow.A B C226 J Clin Neurol 20106224-2261.4%. Therefore isolated MTL is not generally suspected because of the lack of constitutional symptoms absence of an exposure history and palpable lymph nodes and its low incidence.23 Thus the diagnosis and treatment of tuberculous infections in patients with isolated MTL may often be significantly delayed. Unfortunately it has been reported that corticosteroid therapy in patients with untreated or unrecognized tuberculosis results in overwhelming disease and consequent death.Corticosteroids are the most commonly used and most consistently effective immunosuppressive agents in the treatment of MG. They may reduce the serum AChR-Ab level and diminish the AChR reactivity of peripheral blood lymphocytes.6 However prolonged administration of corticosteroids often induces an increased susceptibility to infection.
It is generally known that administration of corticosteroids can lead to a transient exacerbation of myasthenic weakness within several weeks. However the condition of our patient was inconsistent with steroid-induced exacerbation of MG because she complained of gradual myasthenic weakness over a period of several months and the initial daily dose of oral prednisone was low.Together these findings suggest that the possibility of tuberculous infections is often ignored in patients with various types of tuberculous infections without pulmonary symptoms or palpable lymph nodes. Therefore in MG patients receiving long-term corticosteroid therapy careful practical approaches to the screening of tuberculosis by chest radiography tuberculin skin testing and sputum examination are mandatory. In addition further diagnostic tools such as CT or magnetic resonance imaging are required because extrapulmonary tuberculosis occasionally occurs in anatomic regions such as the lymph nodes and the skeletal or genitourinary systems.
Conflicts of Interest. The authors have no financial conflicts of interest. Perioral dermatitis in a patient with myasthenia gravis following systemic corticosteroid treatment. SIR Perioral dermatitis is a common dermatosis presenting as a persistent erythematous eruption composed of tiny papules and papulopustules distributed symmetrically around the mouth and over the chin. A narrow zone of sparing around the vermilion border of the lips is a pathognomonic feature. Additional lesions may arise on the nasolabial folds glabella periocular skin and eyelids. Facial flushing and comedones are notably absent. Classically perioral dermatitis develops secondary to the use of topical corticosteroids or facial cosmetics. Young women age 1645 years are most often affected although cases involving children and men have been reported. Treatment requires cessation of the offending agent with or without the addition of antibiotics such as tetracycline or erythromycin. Without adequate treatment the disease tends to run a persistent and fluctuating course. While perioral dermatitis has been closely associated with topical corticosteroid use the emergence of this condition in patients taking systemic corticosteroids has rarely been reported in the literature.
She was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis MG following a positive edrophonium test single fibre electromyography that demonstrated severe dysfunction at the neuromuscular junction and positive anti-MuSK antibody. Antibodies against skeletal muscle and acetylcholine receptor binding were negative. A total-body computed tomographic scan revealed no signs of malignancy. She was treated with oral prednisone 100 mg daily pyridostigmine Mestinon  Valeant Costa Mesa CA U.S.A. and was scheduled for five rounds of plasmapheresis. After 3 weeks of treatment with oral prednisone and pyridostigmine the dermatology department was consulted to evaluate the patient for an asymptomatic eruption of 12-mm erythematous papules distributed circumferentially around her mouth and over her chin Fig. 1 end. A small zone 23 mm of sparing was noted around her lip margin. She had minimal involvement of the nasolabial folds and no lesions of the glabella eyelids or periocular region. Physical examination also revealed 23 small < 1 mm erythematous papulopustules sparsely distributed across her upper back. No lesions were observed on her neck chest or extremities. She denied a history of acne topical corticosteroid or cosmetics use or similar eruptions in the past.
The patient was educated on the aetiology of her dermatological condition and provided with treatment options. She declined treatment of her perioral dermatitis at this time opting to wait for resolution of the disease as her corticosteroid dose was tapered over the coming months. While numerous studies have linked perioral dermatitis with topical corticosteroid use only one other report published in this Journal by Adams et al. in 1982 specifically explores the emergence of perioral dermatitis in five renal transplant patients maintained on oral prednisolone. In our case we report a young woman who developed her first perioral eruption 3 weeks after beginning oral prednisone 100 mg daily for treatment of MG. Of note the patients reported by Adams et al. developed their eruptions after 713 months of systemic corticosteroids whereas our patients lesions appeared in the first month of steroid therapy which is more consistent with the time course of steroid-induced acneiform eruptions. DOI 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2006.07668.xSIR Perioral dermatitis is a common dermatosis presenting as a persistent erythematous eruption composed of tiny papules and papulopustules distributed symmetrically around the mouth and over the chin.
Additional lesions may arise on the nasolabial folds glabella periocular skin and eyelids.15 Facial flushing and comedones are notably absent. Classically perioral dermatitis develops secondary to the use of topical corticosteroids or facial cosmetics.1 Young women age 1645 years are most often affected although cases involving children and men have been reported.12 Treatment requires cessation of the offending agent with or without the addition of antibiotics such as tetracycline or erythromycin.15 Without adequate treatment the disease tends to run a persistent and fluctuating course. While perioral dermatitis has been closely associated with topical corticosteroid use the emergence of this condition in patients taking systemic corticosteroids has rarely been reported in the literature.6We report a 37-year-old woman with no significant past medical history who was admitted following 2 days of generalized muscle weakness blurry vision difficulty swallowing and voice changes. She was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis MG following a positive edrophonium test single fibre electromyography that demonstrated severe dysfunction at the neuromuscular junction and positive anti-MuSK antibody. Antibodies against skeletal muscle and acetylcholine receptor binding were negative.
She was treated with oral prednisone 100 mg daily pyridostigmine Mestinon  Valeant Costa Mesa CA U.S.A. and was scheduled for five rounds of plasmapheresis.After 3 weeks of treatment with oral prednisone and pyridostigmine the dermatology department was consulted to evaluate the patient for an asymptomatic eruption of 12-mm erythematous papules distributed circumferentially around her mouth and over her chin Fig. 1 end. A small zone 23 mm of sparing was noted around her lip margin. She had minimal involvement of the nasolabial folds and no lesions of the glabella eyelids or periocular region. Physical examination also revealed 23 small < 1 mm erythematous papulopustules sparsely distributed across her upper back. No lesions were observed on her neck chest or extremities. She denied a history of acne topical corticosteroid or cosmetics use or similar eruptions in the past. Based on this clinical presentation the diagnosis of perioral dermatitis secondary to systemic corticosteroid use was made. The patient was educated on the aetiology of her dermatological condition and provided with treatment options.
in 1982 specifically explores the emergence of perioral dermatitis in five renal transplant patients maintained on oral prednisolone.6 In our case we report a young woman who developed her first perioral eruption 3 weeks after beginning oral prednisone 100 mg daily for treatment of MG. Of note the patients reported by Adams et al. developed their eruptions after 713 months of systemic corticosteroids whereas our patients lesions appeared in the first month of steroid therapy which is more consistent with the time course of steroid-induced acneiform eruptions.J .M. GOS S K .M. NORD M.R end. OLART E M.E . GROS SMAN. Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons New York NY U.S.A. Departments of Dermatology and. Neurology Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons New York NY U.S.A. Correspondence Marc E. Grossman end. E-mail marcmeg9aol.com. Shenqi Fuzheng Injection Alleviates the Transient Worsening Caused by Steroids Pulse Therapy in Treating Myasthenia Gravis. Purpose end. To evaluate the treatment effect and side effect of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection SFI on alleviating transient worsening of myasthenia gravis MG symptoms caused by high-dose steroids pulse therapy. Methods end.
The severity of MG before during and after MPT and the duration of transient worsening TW were evaluated and compared with the clinical absolute scoring AS and relative scoring RS system. Results end. Twenty-nine patients experienced TW in each group. At TW the AS was significantly increased P < 0.000 in both groups compared with baseline data with the AS increase in the treatment group 16.8 2 significantly smaller P < 0.05 than in the control group 24.9 2.5. At the end of the treatment course the AS for the treatment group was significantly decreased 7.5 0.9 compared with at TW although no significant difference compared with the control 9.7 1.1. The TW lasted 16 days mean 3.7 for the treatment group significantly shorter P < 0.05 than 212 days mean 7.8 for the control.TheRS for the treatment group at the end of treatment was 43.8%100% mean 76.8% 2.6% significantly better than the control group 33.3%100% mean 67.2 3.6%. Slight side effects 18.75% included maldigestion and rash in the treatment group. Conclusion. SFI has a better treatment effect and few side effects and can alleviate the severity and shorten the duration of the transient worsening of MG during steroids pulse therapy.
Research Article. end. Shenqi Fuzheng Injection Alleviates the Transient Worsening. end. Caused by Steroids Pulse Therapy in Treating Myasthenia Gravis. Guo-Yan Qi Peng Liu and Bu-Lang GaoDepartment of Oncology Shijiazhuang First Hospital and Hebei Provincial Hospital of Myasthenia Gravis 36 Fanxi Road Shijiazhuang Hebei 050011 ChinaCorrespondence should be addressed to Bu-Lang Gao browngao163.comReceived 22 September 2013 Revised 11 October 2013 Accepted 15 October 2013Academic Editor Karl Wah-Keung TsimCopyright  2013 Guo-Yan Qi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.Purpose. To evaluate the treatment effect and side effect of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection SFI on alleviating transient worsening of myasthenia gravis MG symptoms caused by high-dose steroids pulse therapy. Methods end. Sixty-six consecutive patients with MG were randomly divided into two groups the treatment group treated with SFI andmethylprednisolone pulse therapy MPT and the control group treated with MPT alone.
Results end. Twenty-nine patients experienced TW in each group. At TW the AS was significantly increased  < 0.000 in both groups compared with baseline data with the AS increase in the treatment group 16.8 2 significantly smaller  < 0.05 than in the control group 24.9 2.5. At the end of the treatment course the AS for the treatment group was significantly decreased 7.5 0.9 compared with at TW although no significant difference compared with the control 9.7 1.1. The TW lasted 16 days mean 3.7 for the treatment group significantly shorter  < 0.05 than 212 days mean 7.8 for the control.TheRS for the treatment group at the end of treatment was 43.8%100% mean 76.8% 2.6% significantly better than the control group 33.3%100% mean 67.2 3.6%. Slight side effects 18.75% included maldigestion and rash in the treatment group. Conclusion. SFI has a better treatment effect and few side effects and can alleviate the severity and shorten the duration of the transient worsening of MG during steroids pulse therapy. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG characterized by fatigability and fluctuating weakness of the skeletal muscles was one of the neurological diseases with a serious prognosis in the past.
MG is a B-cell-mediated T-cell-dependent autoimmune disorder resulting from loss of tolerance toward self-antigens in the thymus. In this disease the major autoantigen is the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR at the neuromuscular junction and the impaired neuromuscular transmission is caused by IgG autoantibodies binding to the AChR on the postsynaptic membrane of skeletal muscle in more than 80% of patients thus causing clinical symptoms of muscle weakness and fatigability. Antibodies and complements are the key effectors of the loss of postsynaptic AChRs andassociated destruction of the neuromuscular junction 2 3. Thus the goal of MG treatment is to interrupt the autoimmune process by T cells and B cells as soon as possible and thereby prevent further destruction of the neuromuscular junction.Corticosteroids are especially useful as a short-term immunosuppressive agent and have a fairly rapid onset of action which has been well proven and safe 4. However long-term side effects existed with the risk of osteoporosis being effectively reduced by administration of bisphosphonate. Corticosteroids are primarily used early during MG and together with other immunosuppressive agents. Marked improvement has been reported in 70% 80% of MG patients in observational studies.
To counteract this deterioration and more importantly to minimize sideeffects alternate-day therapy with corticosteroids is always recommended in MG. Except for acute situations therapy should be started in a low dose and then gradually increased. Starting with prednisolone 1020mg on alternate days as well as increasing the dose to 6080mg every other day during 4 6 weeks is usually safe.Shenqi Fuzheng Injection is made from Radix Astragali Huangqi and Radix Codonopsis Dangshen two Chinese medicinal herbs which have been used in China and some other Asian countries as herbal medicines for centuries 8. Radix Astragali is usually used as an immunomodulating agent in the treatment of immunodeficiency diseases and to alleviate the adverse effects of chemotherapeutic drugs 9 10. Radix Codonopsis is usually used for treating dyspepsia fatigue bronchitis cough inflammationn and so on with its pharmacological activities including antifatigue and immunomodulatory activities being reported in the Chinese literature 11.The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection in alleviating the short-term worsening of MG during the pulse therapy of steroids. 2 end. Materials and Methods. 2.1 end. Subjects end.
All patients provided their signed informed consent and were hospitalized for their treatment.2.2. Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria. Patients with definite factors that would aggravate the clinical symptoms of MG such as infection or self-discontinuation of medication were excluded because it would be difficult to determine whether a worsening of MG symptoms was caused by the effect of steroids or was a reflection of the natural course of the disease. Patients with severe pretreatment fluctuation of MG symptoms were also excluded. Moreover patients who had recently undergone nonpharmacological therapeutic interventions that might influence the natural course of MG for example thymectomy or plasma exchange were also excluded.All these patientswere diagnosed to haveMGbased on typical clinical symptoms and two of the following diagnostic standards for MG 1 positive neostigmine test 2 positive acetylcholine receptor antibody and 3 abnormal neurophysiological findings repetitive nerve simulation and single-fiber electromyograp. hy.2.3 end. Demographic Data and Randomization. The patients were randomly divided into two groups the treatment andthe control. The stratified and block randomization design was used to divide these patients. This was not a blind but an open-labeled study.
Treatment. Both the treatment and control groups had methylprednisolone pulse therapy 1520mg/kg which was gradually tapered and oral administration of pyridostigmine bromide an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. If patients were already taking methylprednisolone or similar drugs the drugs would be withheld for 48 hours before this treatment. The treatment group also had 250mL Shenqi Fuzheng Injection intravenously once daily with the treatment course lasting for 20 days for both groups. The clinical absolute and relative scoring system was used to evaluate the treatment effect during the steroids pulse therapy Table 2 12. The clinical absolute score system evaluates the patients in the following eight aspects ptosis upper eyelid fatigue eyeball horizontal movement upper limbs fatigue lower limb fatigue facial muscles chewing and swallowing functions and respiratory muscle function 12. The clinical absolute scores ranges 064 with 0 being the least severe or normal while 64 is being the most severe.The clinical relative score is equal to pretreatment clinical absolute score posttreatment clinical absolute score/pretreatment clinical absolute score.
The clinical absolute score reflects the severity of muscle weakness while the clinical relative score reflects the change of muscle weakness after treatment and is better in assessing the treatment effect.The severity and duration of the transient worsening of disease were recorded from emergence to disappearance of the worsening effect and were compared between the two groups at the end of the treatment course.2.5. Primary Outcome Measure. The primary outcome measure was the clinical effect of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection in alleviating the transient worsening induced by steroids. The second primary outcome measure was the possible side effects of the Shenqi Fuzheng Injection.2.6. Statistical Analysis. Measurement data were presented as mean  SD standard deviation. All statistical analyses were undertaken by using SAS V8 software to compare the difference in the duration of transient worsening betweenTa bl e 2 Cl in ic al ab so lu te an d re lat iv esco re sf orpa tient swith M G .Pt os is u pp er ey el idpo sit io nU pper ey eli dfa tigue te st s ec Ey eb al lhor iz onta lm ov emen t w hi te ofth eey e m m U pper limb fa tig ue te st ar m ou tst re tc he d s ec Lo w erlim b fa tig ue te st kn ee an d hi p fle xi on at 90  s ec Fa ci al m us cles Chew in g.
6 3 02  5 8 w ithdi pl opia 2  31 60 2  31 60 2  re duce d ey eclo su restr en gt h ey el as he sa ll ex po se d ou tsi de4  fa tigue w ithso lidfo odp ro lo ng edan dde cr ea se d fo odin ta ke4  sh or tn es so f br ea th w ithw al ki ngon al ev eled ar ea3  84 oc lo ck3  615 3  912 with di pl opia 3  1130 3  1130 3  ca n ne ither clo se ey eli ds no rp uff up ch ee ks6  se m ifl ui d fo odon ly6  sh or tn es so f br ea th w ith sit tin g sti ll4  7 5 oc lo ck4   54  > 12 with di pl opia 4  010. 4  010 4  ca nnot pout w ith a m as kl ik ef ac e8  na sa lf ee di ngon ly8  m ec ha ni ca l ve nt ila tion Cl in ic al re la tiv es co re C RS  p re tre at m en ta bs ol ut es co re  po stt re at m en ta bs ol ut es co re / pr et re at m en ta bs ol ut es co re . Eff ec ts co re  1 co m pl et er em iss io n if CR S  95 %  2 ba sic re m iss io n if CR S 80 9 5%  3 m ar ke d im pr ov em en ti fC RS 50 8 0%  4 im pr ov em en ti fC RS 25 5 0% a nd 5 i ne ffe ct iv en es si fC RS < 25 % .the two groups by the use of -test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test. The  value was set at 0.05 as significant. 3 end. Results end. 3.1 end. Evaluation Standards for the Treatment Effect.
When the clinical absolute score decreased three or more points than that before treatment the transientworseningwas ended.The duration of the transient worsening was thus determined and compared between the treatment and control groups.3.2. Clinical Treatment Effect. At baseline before the steroid pulse therapy the clinical absolute score had no significant difference  > 0.05 between the treatment 32.3  2.5 and the control 32.6  3.2 groups Figure 1. During steroid pulse therapy except 3 and 5 patients in the treatment and control groups respectively who did not experience transient worsening the remaining 29 patients 90.6% in the treatment group and 85.3% in the control group had transient worsening caused by steroid therapy. At transient worsening Figure 1 the clinical absolute score was significantly increased  < 0.000 compared with baseline data 47.3  2.6 for the treatment and 50.5  2.2 for the control although no significant difference  > 0.05 between the two groups. However the increase of the absolute score for the treatment group 340 mean 16.8  2 was significantly  < 0.05 smaller than for the control group 646 mean 24.9  2.5.
The transient worsening of MG lasted from 1 to 6 days mean 3.7 for the treatment group Figure 2 with most of the patients 24 experiencing transient worsening between 3 and 5 days significantly shorter  < 0.01 than that for the control group 212 days mean 7.8 mostly between 3 and 10 days. The clinical relative score for the treatment group at the end of treatment course ranged from 43.8% to 100% mean 76.8%  2.6% significantly better  < 0.05 than for the control group 33.3%100% mean 67.2%  3.6% Table 3. More patients got complete remission and basic remission in the treatment group 15 than in the control group 8 Table 4 and Figure 3.3.3. Possible Side Effects of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection. Five patients in the treatment group had slight maldigestion without additionalmedications for it. One patient had temporary rash on the neck lasting 3 days with no special treatment. Thus the rate of slight side effect for this injection was 18.75%. No similar reaction was found in the control group. 4 end. Discussion.
Moreover Shenqi Fuzheng Injection also has a good treatment effect on MG in the treatment group compared with the control group treated with steroids alone.Traditional Chinese Medicine TCM is gaining increasing attention in both commercial and academic circles because it has been identified for several decades that TCMherbs may play a role in reducing the risk of chronic disease act as powerful antioxidants and have a pharmacological impact on the immune system 13. In the pastmuch research has been focused on the immunomodulatory effect of TCM 13. Evidence has been accumulating that some TCM herbs affect immune cells and cytokine production associated with immune responses 14 15 with some TCM herbs modulating the activity of the innate immune system and others targeting cell subsets of adaptive immunity. Immunomodulation maintains homeostasis of the immune system and is essential for normal health. Abnormalities in immunomodulation can induce serious diseases. When normal immune surveillance is suppressed the immune systemwill fail to protect the body from infectious agents or other harmful substances resulting in generalized susceptibility to infection and tumorigenesis16 17.
MG is such a disease caused by autoantibodies against the autoantigens of the body including the acetylcholine receptors in the postsynaptic muscle endplate membrane and a distinct endplate membrane intrinsic protein musclespecific receptor tyrosine kinase. Immunosuppressive treatment inMG is common and some patients have consequently gained long-term remission of disease. Corticosteroids are currently the mainstay of the immune-directed treatment for patients with MG. Although the corticosteroids appear to be effective in inducing a remission they have major side effects making the cost-to-benefit ratio an important issue for some patients. Moreover steroids pulse therapy with a large dose may induce a transient worsening. Thus other immunosuppressive agents have to be added.Chinese practitioners of TCM frequently use herbal compounds of Chinese proprietary medicine together with active components of Western medicines 21. Herbal medicines are believed by the general public to be safe causing less side effects and less likely to cause dependency because they are natural 22.
TCM holds that MG is primarily caused by spleen deficiency and qi weakness and the treatment of this disease should be based on the principle of invigorating spleen and replenishing qi. In TCM theory the spleen and stomach which are responsible for the transformation and transportation of food are the source of qi and blood production. When these two organs become deficient and cannot carry out their normal functions there will be poor appetite exercise intolerance lethargy general weakness fatigue weakness of the extremities and a pale tongue. Because of qi deficiency the clear yang cannot ascend resulting in loose stools diarrhea and dysentery. In severe cases of spleen and stomach deficiencies the yang qi may be unable to hold the organs in their normal position causing prolapse of such internal organs as the stomach uterus and rectum. Moreover since yang qi unable to ascend sinks into yin it causes spontaneous sweating and a weak deep pulse.Shenqi Fuzheng compriss Radix Astragali Huangqi and Radix Codonopsis Dangshen. Radix Codonopsis can supplement qi promote the production of body fluid and regulate the Spleen and Stomach.
Radix Astragali can strengthen the spleen replenish qi increase the yang qi and restore prolapse of organs. The combination of these two herbs can enhance the total effect by invigorating spleen and replenishing qi to support healthy energy. The effect of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection on the alleviation of the severity and duration of transient worsening of MG during steroids pulse therapy proved the correctness of TCM theory regarding the pathogenesis of MG.Furthermore from the perspective of modern sciences these two components of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection do regulate the immune system of the body. The active components of Radix Astragali include polysaccharides flavonoids and saponins and the active components of Radix codonopsis include polysaccharides. All these components are beneficial for autoimmune disease because they can inhibit the production of serum autoantibodies and total IgG 23. Moreover Bu-Zhong-Yi-Qi-Tang which contains the two components of Radix astragali and Radix codonopsis has been proved to be able to strengthen antibody response in upper respiratory mucosal immune system in vivo by enhancing influenza virus-specific IgA and IgG antibody titers in nasal cavity and sera 24.
A large number of patients are needed for future rigorous study to further prove the effect of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection in alleviating the severity and duration of transient worsening of MG during steroids pulse therapy.In summary this study indicates that Shenqi Fuzheng Injection can alleviate the severity and the duration of transientworsening of MG during steroids pulse therapy and has few side effects. Conflict of Interests. The authors have no competing interests to disclose. Authors Contribution. Guo-Yan Qi and Bu-Lang Gao carried out the design or conceptualization of the study. Guo-Yan Qi Peng Liu and Bu-Lang Gao analysed or interpreted the data. Bu-Lang Gao drafted or revised the paper for intellectual content. These three case histories exemplify current treatment strategies and prognosis in a previously chronic severe and sometimes life-threatening disease. The nurses challenge in working with and caring for these individuals include patient education-concerning disease process medications and cholin . This case report illustrates early use of the combination therapy might be beneficial in refractory myasthenia gravis cases even with chronic immunosuppression and severe COVID-19 infection.
MMF is now increasingly used for indications outside solid organ allograft rejection often with limited supporting efficacy data. The purpose of this audit was to exam . In patients with myasthenia gravis who received single doses of prednisone orally 40 to 100 mg we found acute inhibition of neuromuscular function as manifest by increased decremental responses to repetitive nerve stimulation reduced twitch tension and lowered maximum voluntary contraction stre . In this study we introduced and tested the clinical efficacy of a combined treatment based on the association of plasma exchange PE with high daily doses of prednisone in 18 patients with severe forms of myasthenia gravis MG. A myasthenic score based on strength and resistance was evaluated in e . The coadministration of WZC and tacrolimus can substantially elevate the tacrolimus concentration. It is a safe and economic treatment for adult Chinese patients with MG. Patients with a worse disease condition tend to present a better clinical outcome after tacrolimus therapy. The above finding suggests that there might be a potential beneficial role with no serious side effects of tacrolimus and additional better RCTs including larger sample sizes and long-term study are needed to confirm or refute the results.
Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis aggravates quality of life in patients with MG. Glucocorticoids GCs have been the cornerstone of treating dozens of inflammatory conditions for more than seven decades. GC toxicity is ubiquitous in both clinical trials and clinical practice and toxicities associated with GC use are central to the experience of most patients being treated for i . GCS combined with immunosuppressants can effectively relieve patients clinical symptoms and improve their quality of life with significant clinical efficacy and high safety which is worthy of application and promotion. MM was well tolerated by our six treated patients. Although the clinical response was modest MM has its advantage of a relatively rapid response onset and steroid-sparing effect. Iatrogenic immunodeficiency-associated lymphoproliferative disorder secondary to mycophenolate mofetil treatment in a patient with myasthenia gravis. Based on the results of this small retrospective study it seems initial treatment for ocular myasthenia gravis with a mean maximum daily prednisone dose of 10 mg is similarly effective compared with mean maximum daily dose of 29 mg for control at 1 month. Nephropathies associated with thymoma or myasthenia gravis MG have rarely been observed.
Herein we report a case of a 50-year-old woman who . Chronic high-dose oral prednisone has been the mainstay of myasthenia gravis treatment for decades and has proven to be highly beneficial in many toxic in some way to all and not effective in a significant minority. No patient characteristics or biomarkers are predictive of treatment response le . Non-tuberculous mycobacteria NTM are ubiquitous environmental organisms found in soil and water. Infections caused by NTM are increasing with conditions ranging from harmless colonization to invasive infections the latter being more common in immunocompromised hosts. In this report we present a . This study showed that oral GC use in patients with MG was not associated with increased risk of MOF in our case-control study and pooled analysis. Osteoporosis prevention in MG patients based on clinical guidelines remains advisable. In OMG patients who do not generalize before 3 years chronic long term prednisone at lower doses is moderately effective in maintaining optimum BSV. However OIT are commonly required in these patients. In these OMG patients receiving prednisone and/or OIT conversion to GMG after three years of di . Bone mineral content in patients with myasthenia gravis treated with cortisone.
Continued administration significantly prolonged the onset time of vecuronium and the patients required a higher dose of v . The study aims to identify clinical factors affecting tacrolimus blood trough concentration C0 in myasthenia gravis MG patients and to optimize the initial dose of tacrolimus in MG treatment. A total of 103 MG patients participated in this study and their clinical factors medication regimens . These results showed that the QOL of patients in the low-dose group appeared better than that in the high-dose group. Low-dose PSL therapy may help achieve minimal manifestations level in Japanese patients with MG. The medium-dose periodic therapy of methylprednisolone is more prominent in the long-term efficacy performance. It can improve the immunity and quality of life of patients and it is safer and has high clinical application value. Adequate Initial Dosage and Tapering Methods of Steroids to Reduce the Total Corticosteroid Dose in Myasthenia Gravis. The development of cutaneous cryptococcosis is extremely rare in the human immunodeficiency virus-negative population. The cutaneous manifestations vary greatly with the rarest presenting as cellulitis. We report a unique case of a 64-year-old woman who had been on prednisone monotherapy for the tr .
Steroid-induced spinal epidural lipomatosis in a patient with myasthenia gravis. Our study demonstrated that patients could benefit from prolonged steroid-reducing duration to prevent disease relapse. Patients with bulbar weakness at disease onset should be proposed to take long-term steroids or other immunosuppressants. Resolution of primary ovarian insufficiency after corticosteroid administration in a myasthenia gravis patient Report and minireview of the literature. Tacrolimus may be effective in reducing the severity of MG and may permit a reduction in the steroid dose prescribed to the patients. Adverse events due to tacrolimus treatment were not serious. Mycophenolic acid MPA is a potent selective noncompetitive and reversible inhibitor of inosine-5-monophosphate deshydrogenase IMPDH. By depleting guanosine and deoxyguanosine nucleotides in T and B lymphocytes it inhibits their proliferation and hence immunoglobin Ig production. MPA also . Adequate Initial Dosage and Tapering Methods of Steroids to Reduce the Total Corticosteroid Dose in Myasthenia Gravis-Reply. BACKGROUND The tolerability of high-dose oral corticosteroids in patients with generalized myasthenia gravis gMG has not been systematically assessed.
MATERIAL AND METHODS Retrospective analysis was conducte . We reviewed retrospectively 114 prednisone dose reduction attempts in 63 myasthenic patients. Dose reduction was considered successful if a patient remained asymptomatic for more than 1 year on no prednisone or a stable low dose of prednisone. Successful dose reduction attempts were more common in p . Serious diagnostic and therapeutic dilemmas may arise when preeclampsia complicates pregnancy in a myasthenic patient. Four cases of such an association were previously reported in the English-language medical literature and the fifth one is reported here. Based on the literature review and our own . We describe a case of recurrent invasive thymoma associated with myasthenia gravis that responded to combined treatment with prednisolone and tacrolimus. The patient suffered from a myasthenic crisis and received methylprednisolone pulse therapy and partial thymomectomy. Low maintenance doses of pre . Myasthenia gravis MG is a disease of autoimmunity with variable and diverse clinical presentations. The target tissue is neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscles where efficient nerve impulse transmission is hampered leading to less effective muscle contraction. Patients of MG usually present w .
A corticosteroid could be considered as an initial treatment for patients diagnosed as having ocular myasthenia gravis by an acetylcholine receptor binding antibody test. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2018555339-342.. We report a case of a 55-year-old man presenting with diplopia masticatory weakness and dysarthria several weeks post multitrauma. The clinical suspicion of myasthenia gravis MG was supported with positive acetylcholine receptor antibodies and abnormal repetitive stimulation study. He responded w . Steroid responsive fibrosing alveolitis in myasthenia gravis. The case aims to raise awareness of immune-mediated cardiotoxicity and bring thoughts to the prospects of immunotherapy in thymoma. BACKGROUND Incomplete recovery from residual neuromuscular block agent NMBA after anesthesia is a serious adverse event in the post-anesthesia care unit. Acetylcholinesterase neostigmine is usually used to reverse residual neuromuscular blockade and facilitate spontaneous breathing and endotrachea . There are statistically significant lower levels of Vitamin D in MG patients so routine checking and possible correction should be advised in MG patients based on the current data.
Prednisone should be tapered slowly especially in patients with additional AID or high serum titers of AChR-ab. To avoid symptoms recurr . Tacrolimus could relieve the symptoms of refractory MG and significantly decrease the levels of plasma sPD-1 sICOSL sCD40 sCD25 and IL-2. Soluble costimulatory molecules might be potential biomarkers for MG and tacrolimus treatment. A 44-year-old woman presented with cough facial edema and progressive fatigue. Computed tomography CT showed an anterior mediastinal mass and laboratory findings showed liver injury. She was diagnosed with thymoma and scheduled for thymectomy after radiation and chemotherapy. However she was r . Fufang Huangqi decoction is effective for the treatment of type I and II MG and improves the associated clinical symptoms. Moreover this agent is conducive to dose reductions and discontinuation of basic Western medicines thereby reducing the side effects experienced by patients. Steroids and myasthenia gravis. Tacrolimus is an important immunosuppressant used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG. However the population pharmacokinetic PK characteristics together with the exposure-response of tacrolimus in the treatment of MG remain largely unknown. In this study we aimed to develop a population .
