Introduction. Central serous chorioretinopathy CSCR is a condition characterized by the accumulation of subretinal fluid at the posterior pole of the fundus causing single or multiple areas of serous retinal detachment. The pathophysiology of the disease is thought to involve retinal pigment epithelial RPE dysfunction increased leakage of choriocapillaris vessels and Bruchs membrane dysfunction 1 2. The result of localized exudation is the formation of retinal edema and small RPE detachments at the macular and perimacular areas. Although the aetiology and triggering factors of CSCR are not clearly understood the condition is commonly associated with the use of systemic or topical steroids 2 3. Consequently a critical therapeutic step is the withdrawal of any steroids the patient might be using.Case Rep Ophthalmol 2013416DOI 10.1159/000351856 2013 S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copStefaniotou et al. Multifocal Central Serous Chorioretinopathy Associated with Steroids in a Patient with Myasthenia Gravis2Unfortunately when steroids are indispensable for the treatment of a patients systemic disease the management of CSCR becomes challenging. Here we report our experience in such a clinical setting. Case Report.
OCT demonstrated further elevation of the neurosensory retina and a more irregular subretinal accumulation of highly reflective material fig. 2 end. Indocyanine green angiography excluded neovascularization and polyp-like vascular abnormalities. Low-fluence photodynamic therapy PDT was performed. We administered verteporfin i.v. at a dose of 6 mg/m2 over 10 min waited for 5 min and then directed the diode laser at the larger lesion of leakage in OD using a wavelength of 689 nm and laser energy of 25 mJ/cm2. After the first application the laser spot was directed at the second and the third lesion of leakage in OD fig. 3a end. As the patients myasthenic symptoms improved it became possible for the attending neurologist to reduce the dose of prednisolone increase the dose of azathioprine and add neostigmine. One month later and while undergoing prednisolone tapering his BCVA in OD had improved to 6/10 with no subretinal fluid while the area with the fibrin deposition had nearly disappeared fig. 3b end. The BCVA in OS improved to 10/10 over the next couple of months. To date 1 year after treatment the patients BCVA remains stable at 6/10 in OD and 10/10 in OS with no signs of active disease. The patients myasthenia is currently well controlled with azathioprine and neostigmine.
Agents used to treat unrelated illnesses may cause serious complications in the myasthenic patient. We review the literature on drugs commonly used in emergency medical care that may aggravate myasthenia gravis. The muddle of mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia. Neurology 200871390391 Mycophenolate mofetil inhibits inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase a key enzyme in the de novo but not the salvage pathway of purine synthesis. Since lymphocytes exclusively use the de novo pathway whereas other cells use both pathways the drug selectively inhibits proliferation of T and B lymphocytes and has been used safely and effectively in managing patients with renal transplants. The first case report suggesting efficacy of mycophenolate as an immunosuppressive agent in myasthenia gravis appeared in 1998.1 This was followed by uncontrolled case series2-4 one small double-blind controlled trial5 and a Cochrane review.6 These studies and conversations among neurologists treating myasthenia popularized use of the drug.
The goal was to examine the short-term 12 week efficacy of mycophenolate plus prednisone compared to prednisone alone in patients receiving no other immunosuppressive therapy. A second article in this weeks issue of Neurology describes an international multicenter trial in which patients with MG on 20 mg/day prednisone were randomized to receive either mycophenolate or placebo.7 Once patients were asymptomatic or had only minimal symptoms the dose of prednisone was tapered. The goal was to evaluate the intermediateterm 9 month efficacy of mycophenolate as a steroid-sparing agent without compromising control of myasthenic symptoms in patients taking 20 mg/ day prednisone but no other immunosuppressive therapy. Neither study demonstrated any difference between mycophenolate and placebo. The authors do not suggest that mycophenolate therapy should be discontinued which raises the question of how the results of these studies should be interpreted. Does mycophenolate lack efficacy in myasthenia gravis The authors of these two studies discuss several possible explanations for the negative results other than lack of drug efficacy.
The muddle of mycophenolate mofetil in myastheniaMichael Benatar MBChB DPhil Lewis P. Rowland MDNeurology 200871390391Mycophenolate mofetil inhibits inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase a key enzyme in the de novo but not the salvage pathway of purine synthesis. Since lymphocytes exclusively use the de novo pathway whereas other cells use both pathways the drug selectively inhibits proliferation of T and B lymphocytes and has been used safely and effectively in managing patients with renal transplants. The first case report suggesting efficacy of mycophenolate as an immunosuppressive agent in myasthenia gravis appeared in 1998.1 This was followed by uncontrolled case series2-4 one small double-blind controlled trial5 and a Cochrane review.6 These studies and conversations among neurologists treating myasthenia popularized use of the drug. Until now however there have not been any adequately powered controlled trials.78In the Muscle Study Group MSG trial8 reported in this issue patients with myasthenia who were taking no other immunosuppressive therapy were randomized to receive either mycophenolate plus prednisone 20 mg/day or placebo plus prednisone 20 mg/day with the dose of prednisone remaining constant throughout the study.
The goal was to evaluate the intermediateterm 9 month efficacy of mycophenolate as a steroid-sparing agent without compromising control of myasthenic symptoms in patients taking 20 mg/ day prednisone but no other immunosuppressive therapy. Neither study demonstrated any difference between mycophenolate and placebo. The authors do not suggest that mycophenolate therapy shouldbe discontinued which raises the question of how the results of these studies should be interpreted. Does mycophenolate lack efficacy in myasthenia gravisThe authors of these two studies discuss several possible explanations for the negative results other than lack of drug efficacy. For the MSG trial8 the authors suggest the following the 12-week duration of that trial may have been too brief or the response in patients receiving prednisone alone could have been unexpectedly good perhaps because of differences between subjects in this study and those in the preliminary studies that provided the impetus for the current trial. In fact improvement was seen in a remarkable 77% of patients in the placebo group.8 This figure raises concern that something is amiss a problem may have resulted because both the mycophenolate and placebo groups were also taking prednisone.
If prednisone accounted for all of the response than mycophenolate and placebo would have been equally ineffective. If prednisone accounted for only part of the response in each group then mycophenolate and placebo could have been equally effective. It may not have been lack of mycophenolate efficacy but success of placebo plus prednisone that led to the statistical dead heat between the treatment group and the controls.For the International study7 the authors considered other possibilities there could have been a lower than expected response to mycophenolate the primary outcome measure may have been too rigorous and possibly insensitive to clinically important differences the 9-month duration could have been too short and patients in the t. rial may not have been representative of the general population of patients with myasthenia.Indeed patients in the MSG trial8 were not selected for resistance to steroids as in prior studies. Even so mycophenolate plus prednisone yielded no better results than prednisone alone for the short-From the Department of Neurology M.B. Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta GA Neurological Institute L.P.R. Columbia University Medical Center New York NY.
In the MSG study patients were excluded if symptoms were too severe of if they had received steroids IV immunoglobulin IVIg or plasma exchange within the preceding 3 months or thymectomy in the prior year. However in practice patients with severe MG would be treated first with some combination of steroids IVIg and plasmapheresis and would also likely receive a steroid-sparing agent perhaps azathioprine or mycophenolate in anticipation of the need for more long-term immunosuppression. In effect the MSG study was designed to exclude the patients who might have been those most likely to benefit from treatment with mycophenolate.Notwithstanding the limitations of these trials the authors are to be congratulated for undertaking and completing two complicated trials in a rare dis-ease within a relatively short time. From these data we can conclude that in patients who have not yet proven to be steroid-resistant mycophenolate offers no advantage over modest-dose 20 mg/day prednisone for the short term 12 weeks and in patients taking 20 mg/day of prednisone treatment with mycophenolate for 9 months offers no benefit with respect to improvement in either myasthenic symptoms or lowering the dose of steroids.
The answer to these questions will have to await further study. Tacrolimus in the treatment of myasthenia gravis in patients with an inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy randomized double-blind placebo- controlled study conducted in China. Background To determine the efficacy of low-dose immediate-release tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis MG with inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study. Methods Eligible patients had inadequate response to glucocorticoids GCs after 6 weeks of treatment with prednisone 0.75 mg/kg/day or 60100 mg/day. Patients were randomized to receive 3 mg tacrolimus or placebo daily orally for 24 weeks. Concomitant glucocorticoids and pyridostigmine were allowed. Patients continued GC therapy from weeks 14 from week 5 the dose was decreased at the discretion of the investigator. The primary efficacy outcome measure was a reduction relative to baseline in quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG score assessed using a generalized linear model supportive analyses used alternative models. Results Of 138 patients screened 83 tacrolimus n  45 placebo n  38 were enrolled and treated.
randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study oftacrolimus for MG treatment.16 It was designed to evaluate the ability of tacrolimus to reduce GC dose over a 28-week period while maintaining a stable minimal manifestation disease state no significant difference in the primary outcome measure was reported. Similarly no differences were observed in secondary efficacy measures including QMG score and MG-ADL however the study was not powered to detect these differences.16Here we report a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study conducted in China to investigate the efficacy of tacrolimus in the treatment of patients with MG who have inadequate response to GC therapy. Methods end. This was a randomized double-blind placebocontrolled multicentre phase III clinical trial conducted across 13 sites in China of tacrolimus capsules in patients with MG who had inadequate response to GC treatment. The study was conducted in accordance with the International Conference on Harmonization guidelines for Good Clinical Practice the current revision of the Declaration of Helsinki and the current regulatory rules of China. The study was approved by appropriate independent ethics committees and written informed consent was obtained from all patients. Patients end.
Randomization and blinding. Randomization was performed using a stratified block randomization method the stratification factor was site and the block size for each site was 2 with a statistical software package SAS v9.1.3. Independent biostatisticians generated randomization numbers and used them to assign patients randomly to each group in a 11 ratio.The treatment groups were recursive by order of randomization number and the predetermined values of parameters such as block size and seed number were recorded in blind codes. The study drug and the placebo which appeared identical except for the randomization number on the label were dispensed by order of randomization number. During blind coding both the blind codes for the first unblinding only either group A or group B were assigned to each patient and those for the second unblinding both group A and group B were indicated as either the study group or placebo group.Therapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 109318 journals.sagepub.com/home/tan. Statistical methods. To ensure 80% power to detect the superiority of tacrolimus assuming a two-sided type I error of 0.05 170 patients 85 patients per treatment group were required.
Keywords rs2069762 variant . G/T and G/G genotype of rs2069762 . TAGG haplotype . Tacrolimus . Tacrolimus response . Myasthenia gravis. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is a T cell-dependent and antibodyand complement-mediated autoimmune disorder of theneuromuscular junction characterized by antibody-mediated skeletal muscle weakness and fatigability. It has a reported worldwide prevalence of 40180 per million people and an annual incidence of 412 per million people 13.Yang Shumei Li Yi Meng Huanyu Li Zhibin Jin Wanlin Xu Liqun and Yang Huan contributed equally to this work.Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article https//doi.org/10.1007/s00228-019-02642-z contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users. Yang Huan yangh69126.comYang Shumei 158111026csu.edu.cnLi Yi centralsouth126.comMeng Huany. u menghy126.comLi Zhibin alizhibin123163.comJin Wanlin Wanlin.Jincsu.edu.cnXu Liqun lilyxu1983126.com1 Department of Neurology Xiangya Hospital Central South University 87 Xiangya road Changsha Hunan ChinaImmunosuppressive therapy is recommended in the treatment of MG. Tacrolimus Tac is widely used in transcription and is also recommended for MG because of clinical practice and international consensus guidance for the management of MG 4.
Japanese researchers previously investigated the association between Tac concentration and its clinical efficacy in the treatment of MG 7. They verified that more patients receiving an adequate Tac concentration achieved Bminimal manifestation or better status compared with patients with a lower concentration. Given the limited research on the Tac pharmacodynamic pathways it is important to consider the association among the pharmacodynamics of Tac and drug response for individualized medicine.As a calcineurin inhibitor Tac suppresses the dephosphorylation of NFAT by binding to FKBP1A after entering T cells 8 leading to suppression of IL-2 transcription 9 and immunosuppression of the development of autoimmune diseases 10. The IL-2 gene polymorphisms were reported to be associated with the development of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis 11 psoriasis 12 and acquired aplastic anemia 13. However there are no studies examining the influence of IL-2 gene polymorphisms on Tac clinical outcomes in MG patients.Because of the roles of IL-2 in Tac pharmacodynamics we postulated that the polymorphisms of this gene influence Tac clinical efficacy in MG patients. Therefore we investigated the relationship between the polymorphisms of IL-2 and Tac response in MG patients.
In the present study we observed that the patients with the rs2069762 variant tended to be Tac ineffective. Those with the G/Tand G/G genotype in rs2069762 were also more likely to be Tac ineffective. One haplotype TAGG containing this mutation was identified among the Tac effective patients compared with the Tac ineffective patients indicating the association of rs2069762 with a Tac nonresponse. To our knowledge there is no validation for the direct association of the IL2 gene with the Tac response pathway. Previous researchers have revealed that the rs2069762 T>Gmutation located in the 5 flanking region of IL-2 could affect gene transcriptional regulation and further influence the function or expression of IL-2 in multiple sclerosis 11 and acquired aplastic anemia13. Therefore we infer that the rs2069762 mutation in a location where the IL-2 gene binds to transcription factors might offer a mechanism for Tac clinical efficacy. Thus it is necessary to validate the association of this mutation with the Tac response.
Myasthenia gravis is a rare disease and no standardized definition was recommended for Tac efficacy and therefore it was difficult to enroll a large number of patients in this study. Consequently the main limitations of our study were its small sample size and lack of further validation. Future studies with larger sample sizes and further validation will be required to confirm our findings.Acknowledgments The authors acknowledge the support by the nurses affiliated to the Outpatient Clinic of the Department of Neurology in Xiangya Hospital.Sources of funding This study was financially supported by grants from the National Nature Science Foundation of China grant numbers 8177051973 81571173 and 81501034.Compliance with ethical standardsThe study was approved by the Ethics Committ. ee of the Xiangya Hospital of Central South and all patients provided written informed consent. The certificate number is 201703107.Conflict of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.Publishers note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Gender differences in prednisone adverse effects.
Method TheMGpatient registry is a patient-driven nation-wide database with patients of age 18 years who were diagnosed with MG and live in the United States. Custom-designed prednisonesteroid use and MG survey was sent out to MG registry participants as part of semi-annual follow-up. Data were collected and analyzed for frequency. Results A total of 398 MG participants 21% response rate completed the survey including 173 men and 225 women. Among them 298 reported current 174 or past 288 prednisone intake. Current prednisone dosage varied from 0.5 to 75 mg median 10 mg IQR 720 dosing frequency was daily in 132 76% and every other day in 31 18%. Peak prednisone dose was commonly between 25 mg and 60 mg Median 50 mg IQR 2560 however doses more than 60 mg daily were reported in 59 20%. Prednisone AEs were reported more commonly in women 95% vs 81% p < 0.0001. Women reported more intolerable AEs 77% vs 50% p < 0.00001 and less willingness to accept a dose increase 26% vs 44% p  0.03 compared with men. Conclusions Prednisone is commonly used in the treatment of MG with highly variable dosages and dosing frequencies reflecting the absence of a standard guideline. Intolerable AEs were more commonly reported among women and was associated with unwillingness to accept a dose increase.
Details of the registry registry participants mode of data collection and collected participant-reported outcome measures were described in the previous study. We composed a Prednisone-Steroid use and MG Survey Prednisone Survey which included 11 questions asking the participants about the status of prednisone use current and highest doses and frequencies AEs experienced and willingness to increase steroid dose for better disease control. The 33 items included in the AEs list were derived from MGTX treatment-associated symptoms and treatment-associated complications. Participants were asked to select AEs they experienced from taking steroid prednisone and select them once more if any of them were difficult to tolerate appendix e-1 links.lww.com/NXI/A77. This survey was sent to the MG registry participants along with the semi-annual followup for those who enrolled before April 15 2017. Inclusion and exclusion criteria Patients age 18 years who answered Yes to Has your doctor diagnosed you with MG resided in the United States and completed the 9th semi-annual follow-up survey before November 29 2017 were included.
The efficacy of the corticosteroid medications such as prednisone rely on its pleiotropic effects on the glucocorticoid receptors through multiple signaling pathways which inevitably evoke physiologic signaling along with its anti-inflammatory effect. Women in this study not only reported AEs more commonly but also perceived them as more intolerable compared with men. Consistent with this result women more frequently reported that the dosage of prednisone had to be lowered because of AEs. Experiencing intolerable AEs was associated with a tendency to be resistant to a possible future dose increase if needed for an MG exacerbation and this was more common in women. A previous study that looked at symptom experience associated with chronic immunosuppressive treatment in heart transplant recipients and the result showed that clear gender difference exists. In the study women reported adverse symptomsmore frequently with a higher distress level and the pattern of symptoms was different from men. Women also experienced more AEs in the MG patient registry the MG population treated with long-term steroids. There are many potential factors that might explain this observation. Physiologically women have lower height and weight compared with men.
Intolerable AEs were more commonly reported among women and was associated with unwillingness to accept a dose increase. Consensus guidelines and their validation are required to guide prednisone treatment for MG.From the Department of Neurology I.L. University of Alabama Birmingham Department of Neurology H.J.K. the George Washington University and Department of Biostatistics T.M. M.F. G.C. University of Alabama Birmingham.Funding information and disclosures are provided at the end of the article. Full disclosure form information provided by the authors is available with the full text of this article at Neurology.org/NN.The Article Processing Charge was funded by MG registry.Ethical publication statementWe confirm that we have read the Journals position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report is consistent with those guidelines.This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4. 0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal.Copyright  2018 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
2 were used for statistical analysis. Data availability statement. Data not provided in the article because of the space limitations will be made available in a trusted data repository or shared at the request of other investigators for purposes of replicating results.Standard protocol approvals registrations and patient consents General registry and each study and/or survey obtains approval by the UAB IRB and consent for participation is believed to be obtained when each participant completes their survey.17. Results end. One thousand eight hundred fifty-nine MG patient registry enrollees received the 9th semi-annual follow-up and the Prednisone Survey irrespective of whether they had ever responded to a semi-annual update after registration. Among them 398 participants responded to the 9th semi-annual. Glossary end. AE  adverse effect ICU  intensive care unit IRB  institutional review board IVIG  IV immunoglobulin treatmentMG  myasthenia gravis PLEX  current plasma exchange UAB  University of Alabama at Birmingham.2 Neurology Neuroimmunology  Neuroinflammation  Volume 5 Number 6  November 2018 Neurology.org/NNfollow-up survey and Prednisone Survey 21% response rate.
His medical history included Graves disease diagnosed 1 year previously and treated with carbimazole which was discontinued by the patient 10 months prior to admission.Physical examination revealed a non tender goitre exophthalmos and signs of thyrotoxicosis warm moist skin tachycardia and palpitations along with hyper-thyroidism thyroid-stimulating hormone was low < 0.001 lU.ml1 by ultra sensitive third generation assay and thyroid hormones were increased above the upper limit of our laboratory. fT3 > 30 pmol.l1 and fT4 > 55 pmol.l1. Laboratory testing also revealed a serum creatine kinase of 352 U.l1 normal range 25 195 U.l1 and potassium of 3.6 mmol.l1 normal range 3.54.5 mmol.l1. Despite the lack of circulating thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies the diagnosis of Graves disease was confirmed on the basis of clinical and imaging findings diffuse symmetrical goitre on cervical ultrasonography and increased iodine uptake 37% of total iodine. The patient was commenced on an antithyroid drug but both carbimazole 60 mg per day for 7 days and propylthiouracil 450 mg per day for 5 days after 3 days with no antithyroid drug were complicated by granulocytopenia prompting their withdrawal.
That is not what we observed in our case. Therefore the diagnosis of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis seems very unlikely.Myasthenia is also an autoimmune disease causing weakness of striated muscles. The antibodies acetylcholine receptor antibodies target the neuromuscular junction causing accelerated degradation of acetylcholine receptors and inducing a functional acetylcholine receptor block. Moreover the complement activation induced by acetylcholine receptor antibodies may be the primary cause of neuromuscular transmission failure. Other antibodies may also be involved 11.In our case the patients weakness was initially attributed to thyrotoxicosis as suggested by the raised serum creatine kinase value before the convulsions. Nevertheless the finding of normal concentrations of thyroid hormones strongly suggestive clinical and electrophysiological data the dramatic effect of the neostigmine injection and the high concentration of circulating acetylcholine receptor antibodies led us to a second diagnosis of associated myasthenia gravis 12.The association of Graves disease with myasthenia gravis was first described in 1908 13. Since then this association has often been reported 1417. Of note up to 17.5% of known myasthenic patients were found to have hyperthyroidism 2.
To our knowledge this is the first report highlighting the potentially deleterious role of commonly used drugs in this situation and suggesting implications for the anaesthetist. It is of utmost importance to exclude myasthenia gravis in patients with hyperthyroidism who have neuromuscular symptoms. Mycophenolate mofetil for myasthenia gravis a clear and present controversy. Correspondence Chad Heatwole Department of Neurology The University of Rochester Rochester New York USA Email chadheatwoleurmc.rochester.edu Abstract Mycophenolate mofetil MMF has been used to treat myasthenia gravis MG for over 10 years. MMFs use in the MG population stems from its theoretical mechanism of action and the medical literature that supports its benefi t in MG patients. Recently two large double-blinded placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials were initiated to study the effectiveness of MMF for MG. One of these studies found no benefi t in taking MMF with 20 mg of prednisone as compared to taking prednisone alone while the other study demonstrated no advantage in taking MMF against placebo during a 36-week prednisone taper. This article critically reviews the medical literature on MMFs use in MG and suggests further research avenues on this topic. 2008 Dove Medical Press Limited.
affordable applicable to all myasthenia patients easily administered 100% effective and without adverse effects. Unfortunately a therapy that meets all of these characteristics has yet to be discovered. While corticosteroids are the most commonly used therapy for MG other immunosuppressing agents are also used 1 In cases where MG is refractory to corticosteroid treatment 2 As steroid-sparing agents and 3 In cases where severe corticosteroid side effects occur.Currently available immunomodulating medications have varying mechanisms of action and side effect profi les. Immunomodulating medications frequently used for MG include azathioprine cyclosporine cyclophosphamide tacrolimus intravenous immunoglobulin IVIG plasma exchange PLEX and mycophenolate mofetil. Thymectomy has also been identifi ed as an immunomodulating therapy for MG yet its true effi cacy has yet to be defi nitively proven. The debate on the optimal agent for long-term management of myasthenia is far from settled.Mycophenolate mofetil Mycophenolate mofetil MMF CellCept Roche is a synthesized pro-drug of mycophenolic acid that inhibits the immune system by preferentially depleting guanosine andNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 2008461204deoxygunaosine on both T and B-lymphocyte lines Allison and Eugui 2005.
Ultimately MMF is able to reduce the proliferation of T and B-lymphocytes and affect antibody formation and cell-mediated responses. MMF also acts on the immune system by 1 Reducing lymphocytic recruitment to infl ammation 2 Limiting tissue-damaging nitric oxide 3 Inhibiting the expression of adhesion molecules 4 Reducing the secretion of tumor necrosis factor alpha 5 Increasing the expression of interleukin-10 and 6 Elevating the rate of lymphocytic apoptosis Allison 2005 Schneider-Gold et al 2006. Given the unique immunosuppressive properties of MMF it has been tried as a therapy for many autoimmune conditions including lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis systemic vasculitis cerebral vasculitis multiple sclerosis MG pemphigus vulgaris psoriasis inflammatory eye disease Crohns disease Wegeners granulomatosis dysimmune polyneuropathies cluster headache infl ammatory myopathies and organ transplantation Epinette et al 1987 Enk and Knop 1997 Larkin and Lightman 1999 Neurath et al 1999 No. wack et al 1999 Meriggioli et al 2003 Rozen 2004 Cahoon and Kockler 2006 Schneider-Gold et al 2006.Unlike most other classes of immunosuppressant therapy MMF is not known to frequently produce major organ toxicity Ciafaloni et al 2001.
While cyclosporine and azathioprine may cause nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity respectively these potentially severe side effects are rare to non-existent with MMF use Lim et al 2007. MMF is also thought to have a lower rate of induced late malignancies than azathioprine and cyclophosphamide. In addition compared with corticosteroids MMF has fewer adverse effects on bone health weight cataract formation and hypertension Chaudhry et al 2001 Meriggioli et al 2003 Allison 2005.The use of MMF does carry some risk. There is currently a FDA black box warning that indicates that the use of MMF may increase ones susceptibility to infection the development of lymphoma and may increase the risk of pregnancy loss and congenital malformation in childbearing woman. The most common side effect of MMF is gastrointestinal intolerance usually diarrhea however nausea vomiting headaches bone marrow suppression sepsis hypertension tremor neoplasia depression teratogenicity and an increased risk of infection may occur Chaudhry et al 2001 Amato and Griggs 2003 Draper 2008.
Eleven of the 12 enrolled patients had a thymectomy 7 to 42 months prior to the study.The results of this study revealed that 6 patients taking MMF had improved QMG and MMT scores while two patients taking MMF had signifi cant reductions in their required corticosteroid dose. Of the 12 patients one demonstrated a worsening of both QMG and MMT scores.After 6 months Wilcoxon signed-rank sum analysis demonstrated improvements in MMT QMG and activities of daily living compared with baseline p  0.023 0.001 0.004 with treatment effects seen as early as two weeks. Single fiber EMG was also performed in this study population but did not change with therapy. Some patients did experience side effects from MMF. Two patients developed a transient hand tremor and 2 patients were found to have a decreased hemoglobin level although one was iron defi cient. With the exception of these four patients MMF was found to be well tolerated and safe Ciafaloni et al 2001.In 2001 a retrospective analysis of the use of MMF 1 g twice a day for neuromuscular diseases was reported by Chaudhry et al 2001. Of the patients studied 32 had MG 15 of which had previously undergone a thymectomy.
Patients who had taken azathioprine who were pregnant or who had purely ocular MG severe bulbar MG or were in crisis were excluded from the study. Patients were also required to be on a stable dose of prednisone or cyclosporine and have a stable baseline QMG score prior to entry. The primary measure of effi cacy was a change in QMG score while on treatment. QMG improved in the MMF group by an average of 2.86 points compared with 0.29 for placebo however this result was not statistically signifi cant p  0.30. A statistically signifi cant change in SFEMG values was noted between groups p  0.03 suggesting its potential use as an early biomarker to evaluate response to treatment Meriggioli and Rowin 2003. Changes in manual muscle testing and AChR Ab did not reach statistical signifi cance between the two groups. Patients in the MMF group had side effects that included diarrhea 2 patients insomnia 1 patient and urinary tract infections 2 patients Meriggioli et al 2003.Two years later a 5-patient case series of Asian patients was published on the use of MMF as an adjunctive therapy for refractory MG Prakash et al 2007.
Within 2 to 4 months of MMF initiation all patients demonstrated symptomatic improvement with maintained benefi ts ranging from 11 to 24 months. In addition all patients were able to reduce their corticosteroid dosage without any clinical relapse. With the exception of one patient who experienced initial nausea and diarrhea no patient had any signifi cant side effects from the MMF during this study Prakash et al 2007.MMF has been proposed as an alternative therapy for MG in patients who experience signifi cant side effects from other therapies. In a reported case series Lim et al 2007 demonstrated that MMF could be successfully substituted for cyclosporine in myasthenia patients with cyclosporineinduced nephrotoxicity. Two of 3 patients who switched to MMF experienced no neurological worsening of their MG with marked improvement of renal function once off cyclosporine. A third patient experienced improved renal function but had one signifi cant myasthenia exacerbation during MMF use Lim et al 2007.MM has also been studied in patients with purely ocular symptoms ocular MG Chan 2008. In a prospective observational study 31 patients with ocular MG and positive AChRNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 200846 1207Ab were identifi ed and evaluated.
Once ocular symptoms resolved each patients prednisone dose was tapered over a four week span. Researchers found that 87% 27/31 patients were able to tolerate the MMF. Of this group 93% 25/27 remained at MGFA class I for an average observation period of 4.2 years. Although there was no direct comparison group in this study the rate of decompensation to generalized myasthenia was thought to be equal or lower than ocular myasthenia patients taking azathioprine and/or corticosteroids compared with a separate retrospective study Sommer et al 1997 Chan 2008. Of the 4 patients who discontinued MMF during Chans study 3 cited persistent diarrhea while 1 discontinued the medication secondary to cost.After much anticipation in 2008 the results of 2 large scale double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials were published which tested the effi cacy of MMF in MG Sanders et al 2008 The Muscle Study Group 2008. The relatively surprising fi ndings from these studies have caused much discussion and deliberation in the neuromuscular community.The fi rst of these studies was implemented by the Muscle Study Group MSG and was designed to compare the use of MMF in combination with prednisone 20 mg/day versus prednisone 20 mg/day alone for generalized MG The Muscle Study Group 2008.
Discussion. The collection of past research on MMFs role in MG treatment is neither exhaustive nor conclusive. Early reports and studies appear to hint at MMFs effi cacy while the latest placebo-controlled trials did not defi nitively prove its benefi t compared with placebo. Each of the above described articles is not without criticism. Early case reports are thought provoking but are subject to positive study bias. It is not known how many times MMF was previously used for MG without effect. Such failures are typically not submitted to or accepted by major publications. In addition signifi cantNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 2008461208confounding factors exist in many of the early publications. Most patients in these studies had a history of prior or coexisting treatments including corticosteroid use azathioprine cyclosporine thymectomy IVIG pyridostigmine or full body radiation. In many cases these therapies were being used or withdrawn during the evaluation period of MMF thus complicating the interpretation of results. In cases where a therapy had been discontinued prior to MMF use it is possible that long term or even delayed effects could have been inappropriately attributed to MMF.
Unfortunately none of the early studies were designed to evaluate such interference effects.Much scrutiny has been placed on the latest randomized clinical trials due to their relatively unexpected and perhaps contradictory fi ndings. Many clinicians and scientists have pondered how a medication that seemed so promising in preliminary reports could produce such a bland treatment response. Varied explanations have been proposed such as criticisms on the 1 Length of the studies 2 Selected patient populations 3 Concurrent use of prednisone 4 Multicenter approach and 5 The primary effi cacy measures. Many clinicians have adamantly defended MMFs use based on prior clinical experience while dismissing the results of the latest two clinical trials. The scientifi c and clinical communities should be careful not to completely disregard the results of these latest two trials. Instead these trials should be accepted for what they are two pieces of evidence in a rich tapestry of knowledge on MMFs use for MG.In some aspects it is not overly surprising that the latest recorded effects of MMF in MG were negative.
In addition it is possible that the latest clinical trials did not evaluate the myasthenia patients that would have experienced the greatest benefi t from taking MMF. While the Muscle Study Groups trial was well planned carefully executed and adequately analyzed it only addressed the question of MMFs usefulness in a very small subpopulation of MG patients over a very specifi c and perhaps too short time frame in the context of both concurrent prednisone use and a specifi c and perhaps understudied primary endpoint. While some literature suggests the early effi cacy of MMF the retrospective study of 85 patients reported a maximal objective benefi t only at an average of 26.7 weeks Meriggioli et al 2003. It is possible that a separation in effi cacy wouldhave been demonstrated had the trial been carried out for a longer period of time. Also while quantifi able few would argue that the QMG score is the perfect measure of therapy effectiveness. The MSG study was powered to detect a difference of 3 points on the QMG score between the two arms. It is diffi cult to know for certain if this was the most appropriate clinical difference in which to base an outcome measure.Likewise there are similar limitations in the 2008 Sanders et al MMF clinical trial.
Continued work will be required to fully identify and validate the ideal clinical outcomes for measuring changes in patient-relevant MG symptoms during future clinical studies.Based on the most recent studies diffi cult questions will soon be asked by the patients insurance companies and the public. The use of MMF for MG will likely be questioned. Physicians will have to decide on the best course of action for each individual patient based on what is currently available in the literature. Additional studies are required given theNeuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment 200846 1209limitations of the last two negative clinical trials and the many unanswered questions regarding MMFs use for MG. Conclusions. Much work remains to determine MMFs true place in MG management. Despite recent studies questions still exist regarding MMFs long-term effi cacy optimal dose optimal population of use optimal length of use benefi t as a combination therapy and long-term safety profi le. These specifi c questions should be addressed via future prospective placebo-controlled studies. Disclosures. The authors have no confl icts of interest to disclose. High-dose rocuronium for rapid-sequence induction and reversal with sugammadex in two myasthenic patients.
The difficulties involved are several-fold ranging from the choice of an appropriate muscle relaxant i.e. one that enables safe and rapid airway management to neuromuscular monitoring and normal muscular recovery. Additionally optimizing patient conditions  either pharmacologically or with plasmapheresis  before intervention is well beyond the realm of possibility. We discuss the anesthetic management of two myasthenic patients undergoing emergency surgery for sigmoid perforation and upper gastrointestinal bleeding respectively. In both cases we opted for rapidsequence induction with high-dose rocuronium to prevent inhalation of gastric contents. We also report on the implication of neuromuscular monitoring. We found that the rocuronium sugammadex combination was a useful and effective option in the emergency setting. Case ReportHigh-dose rocuronium for rapid-sequence induction and reversal with sugammadex in two myasthenic patientsP. Casarotti C. Mendola G. Cammarota and F. Della Corte Department of Translational Medicine Maggiore Hospital School of Medicine Novara ItalyThe anesthetic management of patients affected by myasthenia gravis is usually challenging in elective surgery and even more so in emergency procedures.
All rights reserved 2014 The Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley  Sons LtdACTA ANAESTHESIOLOGICA SCANDINAVICAdoi 10.1111/aas.123911154The induction regimen involved administration of propofol as a hypnotic agent remifentanil for analgesia and to blunt the sympathetic response to laryngoscopy and rocuronium bromide 1.2 mg/kg of ideal body weight IBW. Both propofol and remifentanil were administered by target controlled infusion. Sugammadex 16 mg/kg was a key element of the emergency reversal plan. A videolaryngoscope a laryngeal mask airway and a LMA Fastrach Teleflex Medical srl Varedo Italy were also available in the operating room in case of difficult intubation or a cannot ventilate cannot intubate scenario.1214Neuromuscular function was monitored by acceleromyography using the Tof Watch Sx device Organon Ltd Dublin Ireland at the ulnar nerveadductor pollicis unit. Quantitative neuromuscular monitoring was started immediately before rocuronium administration so as to verify proper device operation and check for adequate muscle response. No fade was detected after the first stimulations and monitoring was done throughout the procedure.
prolonged block. In these patients the pharmacodynamics of succinylcholine are unpredictable as the effective dose in 95% of patients ED95 is increased up to 2.6 times and such resistance can cause prolonged onset time216 which is particularly undesirable in RSI.Nondepolarizing NMBA may show a large variability in duration of neuromuscular block but it is usually much prolonged longer even with the use of small doses.3Additionally the concomitant action of anticholinesterase therapy may reduce the effect of anti. cholinesterase used for reversal increasing the risk of cholinergic crisis.14517 It is therefore important to check for the presence of fade at TOF before the administration of any neuromuscular transmission affecting drugs because the need for nondepolarizing NMBA could be even lower than expected in such patients.18Data from the literature suggest that in most myasthenic individuals 0.51  ED95 of nondepolarizing NMBAs provides adequate neuromuscular block for laryngoscopy.1419 It is therefore . safe to conclude that routine dosage should be reduced by 5075% taking into account the possibility of fade before administration of neuromuscular transmission-interfering drugs e.g.
The second case was a high-risk patient with multiple comorbidities whose general clinical conditions required intensive treatment. Moreover the cases described a real-life setting we used an uncalibrated monitoring and we only recorded the absence of fade before NMBA administration without determining the exact initial value of TOF ratio and we decided to include a period of close observation in an intensive setting even if data on neuromuscular function were suggesting complete recovery.Onset time of nondepolarizing NMBA is ultimately a pharmacokinetic process and depends upon the speed at which molecules reach the biophas. e which in turn depends on the gradient between blood and the biophase. Our decision to administer full dose of rocuronium 11.2 mg/kg was based on these considerations as well as on published literature24 aiming at rapid airway control this important safety issue could have not been achieved with succinylcholine to which myasthenics may prove resistant.2 In both cases we decided to avoid induction without muscle relaxants partly because of the higher risks of poor tracheal intubation conditions and also especially in the second case because of the risk of adverse he.
There are proponents and opponents of these various forms of therapy but the studies evaluating the efficacy of these treatment options are of limited quality. There are no randomized controlled trials or data from observational studies that address the question of the efficacy of treatments of ocular symptoms.1 In the absence of evidence approaches to the treatment of ocular symptoms in myasthenia vary greatly.2-5 There is probably little disagreement that it is appropriate to initiate therapy with pyridostigmine but the magnitude of clinical benefit that might be expected and the frequency with which symptoms may resolve completely are unknown. ThereAddress correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Michael Benatar Emory University Department of Neurology 101 Woodruff Circle Atlanta GA 30322 michael.benataremory.eduFrom the Department of Neurology M.J.B. M.B. and Neurostatistics Section J.W. Department of Neurology Emory University Atlanta GA. Disclosure The authors report no disclosures.Copyright  2008 by AAN Enterprises Inc. 1335is much more controversy surrounding the use of steroids.
Arguments against the use of steroids are mainly based on their adverse side effect profile and the claim that relapse of ocular symptoms is common as steroids are tapered.4There are no stand-alone tools for evaluation of ocular symptoms in myasthenia. However because 3 of the 13 items of the quantitative myasthenia gravis QMG scale a validated objective measure of disease severity10-16 that has been used in several randomized controlled trials121317 focus on ocular pathology we have selected these items to form an ocular-QMG subscore which we have used to track patients response to treatment. Here we present data to support the longitudinal construct validity of the ocularQMG and also report our experience with the ocular-QMG score in 35 patients with MG who were followed by a single physician in a neuromuscular clinic at Emory University.METHODS Ocular component of the quantitative myasthenia gravis score. The ocular-QMG score includes three items each performed in a timed fashion. For levator function the presence of ptosis in the primary position score 3 within 1 to 10 seconds score 2 within 11 to 60 seconds score 1 or 60 seconds score 0 is determined.
The duration of each treatment epoch pyridostigmine vs prednisone with or without pyridostigmine the ocular-QMG score at the beginning and end of each treatment period and the dosages of relevant medications were recorded. The beginning of a treatment epoch was defined by the time at which follow-up on the relevant medication began. The end of a pyridostigmine treatment period was defined by the remission of symptoms the discontinuation of pyridostigmine the addition of prednisone to the treatment regimen or the end of follow-up. The end of a steroid treatment period was defined by remission of symptoms discontinuation of prednisone or end of follow-up.Because the therapeutic strategy of the treating neurologist involved the initial use of pyridostigmine followed by steroids if required by symptoms and then a steroid taper once remission was achieved we considered only periods of treatment with pyridostigmine that preceded periods of treatment with steroids. The analytic approach that we have used focuses on treatment epochs rather than patient treatment groups for several reasons. Some patients contributed an epoch of treatment on both pyridostigmine alone and then on prednisone.
n prednisone. The demographic and clinical characteristics of these three groups were compared using the KruskalWallis test or Fisher exact test. For the analyses comparing the response to pyridostigmine with the response to prednisone participants who contributed an epoch of time on each treatment were included in both treatment groups. Although a matched analysis comparing each patients two treatment epochs would have been more ideal given the small number of patients n 6 for whom data on both epochs were available we opted for an unmatched analysis comparing treatment epochs rather than participants. The Wilcoxon rank sum test and Fisher exact test were used for the comparison of ocular-QMG scores and remission rates regression analyses were performed as needed to adjust for follow-up duration. We also examined time to remission by survival analysis. The level of statistical significance was set at 0.05 two-sided.RESULTS Study population. The cohort included 35 patients with MG 16 with OM and 19 with generalized disease. There were 19 men 54% and 16 women 46% the mean age at the time of diagnosis was 52  16.9 years. Acetylcholine receptor antibody titers were elevated in 20 patients 59% 40% of OM pa-tients and 74% of GMG patients.
Median dosages of pyridostigmine and prednisone were 292 and 20 mg per day respectively. Mean ocular-QMG scores at the end of the pyridostigmine and prednisone treatment periods were 3.1  2.6 and 0.9  1.6 respectively. Over the course of the follow-up the ocular-QMG score improved by a mean of 1.1  1.9 and 3.6  2.4 in the pyridostigmine and prednisone groups respectively table 3 p 0.0021. Results remained essentially unchanged after adjusting for the duration of follow-up.Remission of ocular symptoms. The frequency of complete resolution of ocular symptoms and signs ocular-QMG score of zero was assessed after 2 months of treatment to reflect short-term efficacy and at the end of follow-up. No differences were noted in the frequency of remission within 2 months but overall remission was achieved in 4 pyridostigmine epochs 29% and in 19 prednisone epochs 70% p 0.019 table 3.
Therefore an immunosuppressive agent with a quick onset and less serious side effects is needed for treating MG especially for those Osserman grade III and Osserman grade IV MG.Tacrolimus a calcineurin inhibitor usually used for preventing rejection after organ transplantation has been administered to treat MG 16. As a non-steroidal immunosuppressive agent tacrolimus suppresses antigen-simulated interleukin-2 IL-2 production by T-cells and IL-2 receptor expression on T cell and reduces T-cell proliferation 11720. In addition tacrolimus can improve excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle by enhancing ryanodine receptor related sarcoplasmic calcium release 132122. Tacrolimus with a rapid onset around 2 weeks after administration has been suggested to have corticosteroids sparing effect in treatment of MG 2326. Recently several studies showed that tacrolimus could be effective and well tolerated as an immunosuppressive agent in MG patients 192728. However to our knowledge MG patients enrolled in these studies most were classified as Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA class I MGFA Class II or Osserman grade I and Osserman grade II.
2 end. Material and methods. end. 2.1 end. Patients end. MG patients admitted to the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine between June 2011 and January 2017 aged between 18 and 70 with grade III and grade IV according to the modified Osserman scale were recruited and received a telephone follow-up in September 2017. Our department is a well-known tertiary referral center for MG. Patients clinical and laboratory data were collected retrospectively. Diagnosis of MG was based on their history clinical symptoms positive outcomes of pharmacological and electrophysiological tests and antibody tests 7. Diagnosis of MG was confirmed by assessing serum AChR-Ab titers in most cases. Patients with elevated levels of liver enzymes renal insufficiency impaired glucose tolerance malignant tumor severe infection patients undergoing thymectomy within one year pregnant and lactating women at baseline were excluded. All subjects were contacted and received information about the aim of this study and written consents were obtained. This study was approved by the ethics committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine. 2.2 end. Treatment. Patients were divided into two groups.
Mann-Whitney U test revealed no significant difference in Osserman classification between the two groups p 0.123. 3.2.2 end. Hospitalization myasthenic crisis and death. During the follow-up fewer patients were hospitalized for exacerbation of MG in the tacrolimus group than the control group p 0.011 Table2. In the tacrolimus group the reasons for hospital admissions included pulmonary infections urinary tract infection herpes zoster aspirations and exacerbated symptoms due to colds diarrheas menstruations pregnancies childbirths and dose reduction of prednisolone. The reasons for hospitalizations in the control group were similar to that in the tacrolimus group except no patient was admitted with herpes zoster. Fifty-five myasthenic crises occurred during hospitalization and 25 ventilations were recorded in the tacrolimus group. Sixty-nine myasthenic crises occurred during hospitalization and 33 ventilations were recorded in the control group.
Therefore patients treated with tacrolimus more likely had severe or refractory symptoms than those with traditional immunosuppressive agents. Additionally Ponseti and colleagues reported that post-thymectomy administration of tacrolimus combined with prednisone was more effective than prednisone alone for the consolidation of complete stable remission in a shorter period of time in MG patients which proved the ability of tacrolimus in improving clinical symptoms of thymectomized MG patients 36. The other reason is that patients who underwent thymectomy had a significantly lowerMG-ADL score than patients without thymectomy in the control group. Consistent with an international randomized trial conducted by Wolfe and colleagues showed that patients who underwent thymectomy combined with prednisone had a lower quantitative myasthenia gravis score over a 3-year period than those who received prednisone alone 37. In summary although there were more patients underwent thymectomy in the tacrolimus group the two-way ANOVA still showed patients treated with tacrolimus had more favorable outcomes in improving MG-ADL score and reducing the number of hospital admission.Tacrolimus treatment showed the positive effect of improving MGADL score in MG patients.
5 end. Conclusions. In conclusion the results of our study have shown that tacrolimus is effective in improving clinical outcomes and reducing the number of hospitalizations and is well tolerated in Osserman grade III and IV MG patients.Competing interestsThe authors declare that they have no competing interests.FundingThis study was supported by a grant for high-level university construction projects from Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine Grand number 018A1AFD018171Z11073.Authors contributionLNZ and YL desi. gned the study YL and XJF performed the collection and the follow-up XML and QLJ analysed the data SSW and SFS carried out the search and the literature analysis LNZ and MC prepared the manuscript. All the authors read and approved the final manuscript.Ethics approval and consent to participateThis study was approved by the ethics committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine. All subjects were contacted and received information about the aim of this study and written consents were obtained. Acknowledgement. This study was supported by a grant for high-level university construction projects from Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine.
Objective To elucidate the long-term therapeutic efficacy and safety of low-dose FK506 tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. Patients and methods We treated nine patients with MG all women age range 3583years mean 51.1years MGFA classification 4 type IIa 4 type IIb and 1 type IVb patients with FK506 for more than 24months observation period 2446months. All the patients had undergone extended thymectomy before FK506 treatment two patients 22.2% had noninvasive thymoma and six 66.7% had thymic hyperplasia. We evaluated total Quantitative MG Q-MG score anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibody titer in the blood interleukin 2 IL-2 production in peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs administration dosage of prednisolone PSL and adverse effects of FK506. Results A reduction in steroid dosage of 50% without worsening of the symptoms was observed 1year after FK506 administration in three out of six steroid-dependent MG patients 50.0%. The total Q-MG scores range 039 points at 6months and 1year after FK506 administration improved by 3 points or more in six 66.7% and seven 77.8% out of nine patients respectively. The efficacy of FK506 was maintained for more than 2years. Although adverse effects were observed in three patients 33.3% these were not serious.
Conclusions Our study indicates that low-dose FK506 treatment may be efficacious not only in controlling intractable myasthenic symptoms but also in reducing steroid dosage and that FK506 is safe as an adjunctive drug to PSL for MG treatment for a maximum of 3years. D 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Tacrolimus hydrate FK506 Myasthenia gravis Treatment Adverse effects. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease usually mediated by anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies binding to postsynaptic receptors of the neuromuscular junction NMJ 1. Extended thymectomy and alternate-day administration of prednisolone PSL have0022-510X/ - see front matter D 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.jns.2006.03.010 Corresponding author. Tel. 81 25 227 0666 fax 81 25 223 6646.E-mail address nishibri.niigata-u.ac.jp M.
FK506 has been used for the suppression of immune reactions in organ transplantations 5 and for the treatmentP S L mg /d ay O u tc o m e4 w ee k sE n tr y6 m o n th s1 y ea r1 01 01 01 0U0 00 0U4 55 03 2 .52 2 .5I1 6 .31 6 .31 6 .31 6 .3I1 51 51 01 0I0 00 0I5 55 5I4 03 7 .52 7 .51 5I3 03 03 01 5I4 55 03 2 .52 2 .5I 70 00 0U  21 7 .91 8 .21 4 .61 0 .4 lo n e F  fe m al e H P h y p er p la si a U  u n ch an g ed  Iof autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis 6 and systemic lupus erythemato. sus 7 end. Yoshikawa et al. demonstrated that FK506 is effective for preventing the induction of experimental autoimmune MG in rats 8 strongly suggesting a potential role of FK506 in the treatment of MG. Recently several authors have reported that FK506 is useful and safe as an adjunctive drug to steroids for MG 913.
B as e6 m o n th s1 y ea r2 .63 .7H P5 .24 .4/ /2 42 42 47 .9< 1 .0H P3 6 4 .08 6 .0/ /8 779 .89 .4H P3 5 .58 .64 5 04 2 61 38 79 .92 5 .1H P8 .56 .91 5 22 4 61 29 81 .81 .7T h y m o m a7 3 .12 7 .15 3 9/ 94 60 .3< 1 .0F atti ss u e2 1 .21 0 .21 6 09 99 660 .2< 1 .0H P9 8 .77 4 .55 1 89 5 61 05 51 .40 .3H P0 .20 .1/ /1 09 76 .64 .8T h y m o m a1 0 3 .0/ 4 5 2/ 1 28 89 .92 5 .1T h y m o m a2 3 6 4 .07 4 .55 3 99 5 62 42 42 40 .20 .1H P  60 .20 .11 5 29 98 450 .15 .0F atti ss u e1 1 0 0 %5 7 .2 %1. 0 0 %1 2 5 %1 1 .98 .98 .7d at io n o f A m er ic a P B M C  p er ip h er al b lo o d m o n o n u cl ea r ce ll  Q -MG  q u an ti ta ti v em y as th en ia g ra v is  P S L  p re d n is op o in ts o r m o rein th e Q -MG sc o re . 2 end. Patients and methods. Nine MG patients treated with FK506 from September 2001 to September 2003 at Niigata University Hospital who were steroid-dependent or steroid-unresponsive or had worrisome complications with a high dose of steroids were enrolled in this study. Their dosage of PSL was not increased by more than 10mg/day within 4weeks before FK506 administration due to distinguish between the therapeutic effect of FK506 and that of PSL. Informed consent about using FK506 for MG treatment was obtained from all patients before starting FK506 treatment.
Results end. Nine patients with MG all were women were involved in this study. They included 4 type IIa 4 type IIb and 1 type IVb patients by MGFA classification 14. Their age range at the start of the FK506 treatment was 3583years mean age 51.1years and the observation period was 24 46months mean 34.6months. The disease duration from the onset of symptoms to FK506 administration was 0.2 29.9years mean 10.1years. None of the patients wasseronegative MG who lacked anti-AChR antibodies. All of the patients had undergone extended thymectomy before FK506 administration. Histopathological examinations revealed thymic hyperplasia in six 66.7% patients noninvasive thymoma in two 22.2% and adipose tissue proliferation in one 11.1%. The clinical characteristic findings of all the patients are summarized in Table 1.Before FK506 administration six patients 66.7% Nos. 1 35 8 and 9 were steroid-dependent who relapsed with a reduced dosage of PSL and/or suffered from adverse effects of PSL. Among them four patients 44.4% Nos. 3 4 8 and 9 were completely unresponsive to a combined therapy with oral PSL and cyclosporine. The other 3 patients 33.3% Nos.
3 8 and 9 out of six patients Nos. 1 35 8 and 9 who received oral PSL at more than 10mg/ day at 4weeks before FK506 administration a reduction in PSL dosage of 50% without worsening of the symptoms was observed 1year after FK506 administration Table 1 and Fig. 1 end. The mean dosage of PSL was reduced by 3.3mg/day at 6months mean 14.6mg/day and by 7.5mg/ day at 1year mean 10.4mg/day compared with that at 4weeks before FK506 treatment mean 17.9mg/day.The total Q-MG scores at 6months and 1year after FK506 administration improved by 3 points or more in six 66.7% Nos. 37 and 9 at 6months and seven 77.8% Nos. 39 at 1year out of nine patients respectively Table 1. There were significant differences between the total Q-MG scores at the start of FK506 administration mean 11.9 and those at 3months mean 9.3 p 0.04 6months mean 8.9 p 0.01 and 1year mean 8.7 p 0.01 after FK506 administration Fig. 2 end. Eight patients Nos. 18 were observed for more than 2years and two Nos. 1 and 2 of them for more than 3years. The efficacy demonstrated for a 1-year period was maintained during the long-term more than 2years observation. FK506 monotherapy without a high dose of steroid was also effective in two out of three patients Nos.
18 p 0.02 PBMC IL-2 production was decreased from the base to 4weeks in only one patient No. 6 end. No significant association was observed between PBMC IL-2 production and the improvement in the total Q-MG score.Although three adverse effects including an increase in hemoglobin A1C HbA1C level and a slight decrease in lymphocyte count were observed in three patients 33.3% Nos. 6 7 and 9 these adverse effects were not serious.At the dosage of 3mg/day or less the level of FK506 in the blood which is recommended to be from 10 to 20ng/ml 17 remained below 10ng/ml except for that 13.5ng/ml in one patient who was the oldest and had chronic renal dysfunction No. 6. end. 4 end. Discussion. Recently Konishi et al. Nagane et al. and Ponseti et al. have reported the efficacy of FK506 for the treatment of MG in non-blind prospective studies. However the long-term efficacy and safety of FK506 have not been well established. In this study we clearly demonstrated that seven patients 77.8% showed improvements in the total Q-MG score 1year after FK506 administration and the efficacy was maintained for a maximum observation period of 3years strongly suggesting the effectiveness of long-term treatment with FK506.
We collected patients clinical and laboratory data retrospectively. Disease severity evaluated by MG-activities of daily living ADL score 10 dose of oral steroids and rate of anti-AChR antibody were compared at baseline and after 5 years in all patients. This study was approved by the local ethics committee of Hokkaido Medical Center.Ta bl e 1 Cl in ic alch ar ac te ri st ic s ofth e 9 pati ents atba se line.Pt N o.A geat st ar t ofta cr ol im us tr ea tm en t y ea rs G ende rA geat M G on se t y ears D ur at io n betw ee n on se t an d st ar t of ta cr ol im us tr eatm en t m on th sD ur at io n betw ee n on se t an d th ymec to m ym onth sM axim umse veri tybe fo read m in is tr at io nof ta cr ol imus MG FASe veri ty at ba se lin e M G FA Pa . th ol og y of th ymus D os e ofPS Lm g/ day A ChR A b n m ol /l IA P befo re ad m in is tr at io n of ta cr ol im usRe as ons toin tr oduc eta cr ol imus1 58M 5618 83a 3aH yper pl as ia50 b 0.
M9 64F 636 14b 3bIn vasi veth ymom a20 7. 9Ye sW or se ni ngD MM G FA M yast heni a G ra vi s Foun dati onof A m er ic aIA Pim m unoa dsor pt io n unde r m embr ane pl as m aphe re si s PSL pr edon is ol one D M  di abet esm el lit usa ndM G  m yast heni a gr avis . 2.2 end. Statistics. Data were analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Statistical significance was set at Pb0.05. 3 end. Results end. end. 3.1 end. Clinical features of MG patients at baseline. The clinical profiles of all 9 patients at baseline are shown inTable 1. Mean age at onset of MGwas 41.4 years range 3364 years and mean disease duration before treatment with tacrolimus was 109 months range 6264 months. Eight of the 9 patients underwent thymectomy. Pathology of the removed thymus in the 8 patients included hyperplasia n5 invasive thymoma n2 and noninvasive thymoma n1. Anti-AChR antibody was positive in all 8 patients. The most severe disease classification according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA before the administration of tacrolimus was N3 in 6 patients and 4 patients were treated with immunoadsorption under membrane plasmapheresis IAP at least once before initiation of tacrolimus.
3.2 end. MG-ADL score and clinical symptoms. The MG-ADL scores before tacrolimus treatment were 2 to 7 points mean 4.6 and the scores gradually decreased during the first 3 months after initiation of tacrolimus treatment Fig. 1 end. The MGADL scores remained reduced during the 5 years of follow-up however statistical analysis showed no significant decrease in MGADL score at any point compared to baseline. Two patients who had suffered with MG for more than 10 years had four or six relapses during the 3 years before treatment with tacrolimus and their relapses were significantly reduced to one during the 5 years after the initiation of treatment. During 5 years of follow-up no patients received IAP therapy. 3.3 end. Dose of oral steroids. The mean dose of oral PSL was 24.0 mg/day range 550 mg/day before initiation of tacrolimus treatment. The dose of PSL was tapered 6 months after initiation of treatment Fig. 2 end. The mean doses of PSL were 13.9 12.8 and 10.2 mg/day at 12 24 and 60 months respectively. The dose of PSL at 12 months was significantly lower compared to the dose at baseline Pb0.05. However 5 patients experienced exacerbation and increased PSL dose during the 5 years of follow-up. 3.4 end. Anti-AChR antibody.
The ratio was not reduced at 3 months but was decreased to 0.556 0.599 and 0.453 at 12 24 and 36 months respectively Fig. 3 Pb0.05 end. Thereafter the ratio did not change significantly. During the 5 years of follow-up 3 patients had an increased titer of anti-AChR and they experienced a worsening of symptoms during this period. 3.5 end. Adverse events. Table 2 shows adverse events for which therapies were needed during the 5-year follow-up. Most of these events were considered to be associated with steroid use such as bone disease and infection. Three of the 9 patients developed kidney stones. There were no severe adverse effects in any of the patients. 4 end. Discussion. We report here the data from 9 patients with steroid-dependent generalized MG treated with low-dose tacrolimus 23 mg/day for 5 years who had either repeated exacerbations of MG and difficulty in reducing PSL dose or difficulty in treating with a high enough dose of PSL because of severe side effects of PSL in spite of the severity of MG. There have been several reports of long-term follow-up of treatment of MG with tacrolimus however most of these have been 23 years follow-up.
In fact 5 of the 9 patients in this study had experienced exacerbation and needed a transient increase in the PSL dose during the 5 years of follow-up indicating clearly that long-term follow-up is needed in the evaluation of the effects of tacrolimus.Previous reports showed an early effect of tacrolimus treatment 681114. Tacrolimus improved muscle strength at only 2 weeks after the treatment commenced in a 2002 study 11 and other studies also showed significant clinical improvement for example in lower limb muscle strength 8 MG-ADL and serum levels of anti-AChR antibodies 14 shortly after patients were started on the drug. None of our patients was treated with IAP during 5 years follow-up although 4 patients received IAP treatment before the initiation of tacrolimus. MG-ADL scores also continued to decrease to 24 months after administration of tacrolimus and were then stable from 24 to60 months. On the other hand anti-AChR antibody titers showed no change at 3 months after initiation of tacrolimus but decreased gradually thereafter. We needed more time to see the effects of tacrolimus compared to previous studies.Treatment with tacrolimus can decrease the required dose of oral steroids.
The same group reported with longer follow-up mean 2.5 years range 0.133.72 that 77 of 79 MG patients who switched from cyclosporine to tacrolimus could stop PSL treatment with an improvement in clinical symptoms evaluated by quantitative MG score 5. In a study by Konishi et al. in 12 MG patients who had an MG-ADL score of 23 at baseline and with 88104 weeks of follow-up half of the patients showed improvement at the end of the study and PSL dosage could be reduced in 7 patients 58% with a mean reduction ratio of 37% 12. Ponseti et al. reported that all 40 patients treated with tacrolimus could stop PSL treatment 7 and the same group reported that after initiation of tacrolimus PSL treatment could be withdrawn in 91.6% of patients after the first year and in 95.1% at the end of the study 6. In the latter study mean follow-up time was 49.3 months and the data suggest the usefulness of starting treatment with PSL/tacrolimus in the early post-thymectomy period 6. In our patients none could stop PSL after initiation of tacrolimus although low-dose tacrolimus could reduce the oral dose of PSL.
Another possible explanation is the lower initial dose of tacrolimus 23 mg/day in our patientscomparedwith initiation of tacrolimus from doses of 0.1 mg/kg/day in other studies 46.With regard to adverse events infection and renal toxicity have been reported at high doses of tacrolimus when used for organ transplantation 15. By contrast no serious adverse events have been associated with tacrolimus treatment of MG for 16 weeks 89 6 32 months 14 1 year 13 more than 2 years 16 88104 weeks 12 or 36 months 17. Ponseti et al. reported 3 patients with solid tumors however these events were unlikely to be caused by tacrolimus because of the short interval between start of treatment and diagnosis of malignancy 4. There were no other serious side effects associated with the administration of tacrolimus including infection 4. In the large study by Ponseti et al. with 212 MG patients 4.9% stopped tacrolimus because of major adverse effects which occurredmostly during the initial months after the introduction of the drug 6. In the other reports the administration of tacrolimus started with doses of 0.1 mg/kg/day then adjusted to achieve plasma drug concentrations of between 7 and 8 ng/ml and this high dosemight be associated with withdrawal due to adverse events 46.
One of these patients wanted to discontinue tacrolimus and the other patient became HBs-antigen positive and experienced liver dysfunction. In the latter patient steroid pulsed therapy had been administered immediately prior to the development of liver dysfunction so it is not clear whether liver dysfunction was due to tacrolimus alone.There are some limitations of this study because of the relatively small numbers of patients treatedwithmultiplemodalities the lack of controls and the retrospective nature of data collection. Furthermore this study may include clinician bias regarding benefit of therapy and clinical improvement over 5 years may in part be due to the natural course of the disease. This study however provides some information about the 5-year long-term use of tacrolimus. In our study 5 patients experienced some worsening of symptoms during the 5 years of follow-up however in general the efficacy of tacrolimus was maintained for 5 years without renal impairment or glucose intolerance. For further evaluation of tacrolimus for the treatment for MG data from studies with larger numbers of patients and longer followup are needed.References1 Meriggioli MN Sanders DB. Autoimmune myasthenia gravis emerging clinical and biological heterogeneity. Lancet Neurol 2009847590.
Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 19943301797810. 3 Kino T Hatanaka H Hashimoto M Nishiyama M Goto T Okuhara M et al. FK-506a novel immunosuppressant isolated from a Streptomyces. I end. Fermentation isolation and physico-chemical and biological characteristics. J Antibiot Tokyo 198740124955. 4 Ponseti JM Azem J Fort JM Codina A Montoro JB Armengol M. Benefits of FK506 tacrolimus for residual cyclosporin- and prednisone-resistant myasthenia gravis one-year follow-up of an open-label study. Clin Neurol Neurosurg 200510718790. 5 Ponseti JM Azem J Fort JM Lpez-Cano M Vilallonga R Buera M et al. Long-term results of tacrolimus in cyclosporine- and prednisone-dependent myasthenia gravis. Neurology 20056416413. 6 Ponseti JM Gamez J Azem J Lpez-Cano M Vilallonga R Armengol M. Tacrolimus formyasthenia gravis a clinical study of 212 patients. Ann NY Acad Sci 20081132 25463. 7 Ponseti JM Gamez J Azem J Fort JM Lpez-Cano M Vilallonga R et al. Postthymectomy combined treatment of prednisone and tacrolimus versus prednisone alone for consolidation of complete stable remission in patients with myasthenia gravis a non-randomized non-controlled study. Curr Med Res Opin 200723126978. 8 Konishi T Yoshiyama Y Takamori M Yagi K Mukai E. Japanese FK506 MG Study Group.
J Neurol Sci 20062471720. 17 Furukawa Y Yoshikawa H Iwasa K Yamada M. Clinical efficacy and cytokine network-modulating effects of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis. J Neuroimmunol 200819510815. Safety of Prednisone for Ocular Myasthenia Gravis. Background Treatment with chronic corticosteroids has been associated with frequent significant adverse effects. We hypothesized that a long-term low-dose prednisone regimen for ocular myasthenia gravis OMG would have a low rate of major side effects. Methods Consecutive OMG patients from a single institution over a 16-year period and treated with 1 month of daily prednisone were included. Steroid-related complications were defined as the development/worsening of conditions requiring alteration to medical therapy. Serious complications included conditions requiring emergency care hospitalization or surgery. Results Eighty-three patients with follow-up period ranging from 1 to 271 months median 58 months were included. Fifty-eight 70% patients had follow-up period of24 months. The maximum prednisone dose ranged from 10 to 60 mg. Tapering to 10 mg/d required 4 months for all but 2 patients. Median average daily dose following the initial course was 5 mg daily interquartile range 47.5 mg.
The maximum prednisone dose ranged from 10 to 60 mg. Tapering to 10 mg/d required 4 months for all but 2 patients. Median average daily dose following the initial course was 5 mg daily interquartile range 47.5 mg. During the first 2 years there were 24.5 complications per 100 person-years. Only one patient had a serious complication within the first 2 years 2-year cumulative risk 1% but this individual was not following the recommended regimen. Conclusions Low-dose prednisone for OMG has an acceptable side-effect profile and causes few serious complications 2-year riskw1%. However patients need monitoring to detect the relatively common but less serious complications 2-year risk w39% to adjust medical therapy in a timely fashion.Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology 201232212215 doi 10.1097/WNO.0b013e3182536558  2012 by North American Neuro-Ophthalmology SocietyT he use of corticosteroids in the immunologic treatmentof ocular myasthenia gravis OMG is controversial primarily because of the potential for significant side effects 1. Some have suggested that steroids should be used only when absolutely necessary in the treatment of myasthenia gravis 2 whereas others have shown favorable outcomes with long-term low-dose regimens of prednisone 3.
We report a 20-year-old female with generalized myasthenia gravis MG who developed atonic urinary bladder and accommodative insufficiency. Although her sera did not contain antibodies to either nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR or voltage-gated calcium channels a positive intravenous edrophonium test and a waning phenomenon on electromyographic studies indicated a diagnosis of seronegative MG. Myasthenic symptoms as well as urinary incontinence and impaired near vision disappeared with slight sequelae after corticosteroid therapy and total removal of the hyperplastic thymus. These symptoms recurred during a tapering course of corticosteroids and improved again with an increased dose. Therefore in this patient the neuromuscular transmission of muscarinic type of AChR in the smooth muscles was also affected. This patient provides insight into the mechanisms by which some smooth muscles are involved in MG.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody Urinary incontinence Accommodative insufficiency Muscarinic receptor1.
Calcium gluconak was used as a placebo after the injection the amount of accommodation i creased by 0.3 diopter which was not significant. D  diopter.Repeated attempts to detect anti-nicotinic AChR antibodies failed when using a highly sensitive assay system cut-off value 0.07 nM Ohta et al. 1990. Sera obtained before corticosteroid therapy was begun did not contain antibodies to voltage-gated calcium channels VGCC Motomura et al. 1995 rheumatoid factors antinuclear antibodies or anti-DNA antibodies. Thyroid functions were normal throughout the clinical course.3. DiscussionFirst it would be pertinent to reassess the clinical diagnosis of this patient. Lack of gastrointestinal symptoms and pupillary constrictor muscle involvement on two separate episodes of recurrent generalized weakness is sufficient to rule out the possibility of botulism or diphtheria. Autoimmune neuropathy was unlikely because she showed brisk tendon reflexes and normal sensory systems. A combination of limb muscle weakness and cholinergic dysautonomia could occur in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome LEMS.
T end. Nakamura for measuring anti-VGCC antibody levels.ReferencesBannister R. and A.D end. Hoyes 1981 Generalized smooth-muscle disease with defective muscarinic-receptor function. Br end. Med end. J. 282 101% 1018. Birdsall N.J.M. E.C. Hulme and J.M. Stockton 1983 Muscarinic receptor subclasses allosteric interactions. In Molecular Neurobiology Cold Spring Harbor Symposia on Quantitative Biology Vol. 48 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York pp. 53-56 end. deGroat W.C. and A.M end. Booth 1980 Urinary bladder. Physiology of the urinary bladder and urethra. Ann end. Intern end. Med. 92 part 2 312-315. Engel A.G. 1984 Myasthenia gravis and myasthenic syndromes. Ann end. Neurol. 16 519-534. Howard Jr. J.F. M.K. Donovan and M.S. Tucker 1992 Urinary incontinence in myasthenia gravis a single-fiber electromyographic study. Ann end. Neurol. 32 254. Manson N end. and G end. Stem 1965 Defects of near vision in myasthenia gravis. Lancet 1 935-937. Michaelson D.M. A.D. Korczyn and M. Sokolovsky 1982 Antibodies to muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in myasthenia gravis. Biochem end. Biophys end. Res end. Commun. 104 52-57. Motomura M. I. Johnston B. Lang A end. Vincent and J. Newsom-Davis 1995 An improved diagnostic assay for Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. J end. Neurol end. Neurosurg.
Ohta M. K. Ohta F end. Mori N end. Itoh H end. Nishitani and K. Hayashi 1990 Improved radioassay of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody application for the detection of extremely low antibody titers in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis. Clin end. Chem. 36 91 I-913. Yamazaki A. and S end. Ishikawa 1976 Abnormal pupillary responses in myasthenia gravis. A pupillographic study. Br end. J end. Ophthalmol. 60 575-580. Invasive Thymoma in Ocular Myasthenia Gravis Diagnostic and Prognostic Implications. W e read with great interest the recent article by Bruce and Kupersmith 1 discussing the safety of prednisone in treating patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Yet before treatment there are critically important steps in evaluating these patients. We illustrate this point by presenting 2 cases of OMG that were found to have invasive thymoma. Case 1 A 50-year-old Hispanic man presented with a 4-month history of ptosis and diplopia which was worse in the evening and better in the morning. He had no other symptoms. Visual acuity was 20/20 bilaterally. External examination showed bilateral variable ptosis which increased with sustained upgaze mild orbicularis weakness and positive Cogan lid twitch sign.
t the acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction cause failure of neuromuscular transmission pathologic fatigue and weakness. Cholinesterase inhibitors such as pyridostigmine improve the efficiency of neuromuscular transmission but do not fully compensate for the reduced function of acetylcholine receptors.Although controlled trials of corticosteroids in MG have not been carried out prednisone or prednisolone in Europe is the initial immunosuppressive treatment currently used in most patients. The optimal dosage and schedule of administration have not been defined the cumulative burden of steroid side effects is high and severe complications are not rare.2 Many patients and physicians resist using high dosages of prednisone and are highly motivated toe-Pub ahead of print on April 23 2008 at www.neurology.org. See the appendix for a list of participating Muscle Study Group members. Supported by grant FD-R-002154-01 from the Orphan Products Development Program of the US FDA F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Roche Grant CEL248 and Aspreva Pharmaceuticals and General Clinical Research Center GCRC grants MO1 RR00034 M01-RR00044 M01-RR-01346 and M01 RR023940 from the National Center for Research Resources NIH. Disclosure Dr.
Patients who deteriorated to a degree that other immunosuppressive therapies needed to be initiated were considered treatment failures and withdrawn from the study. At each clinic visit the site investigator completed a questionnaire to ascertain if any of the following criteria for possible treatment failure had been met a progressive weakness of respiratory or limb muscles sufficient to significantly impair activities of daily living b progressive weakness of oropharyngeal muscles sufficient to impair adequate nutrition or constitute a significant risk of aspiration c the subject was unwilling to continue in the study because of progressive or continuing . disability d the subjects physician felt that it would not be in the best interest of the subject to continue in the study due to MG symptoms e forced vital capacity FVC 30% of predicted and f ADL score increase of more than 3 points from baseline. If any ofthese conditions were met the investigator contacted the study medical monitor within 24 hours to discuss the need to withdraw the subject from the study. If the site investigator determined that immediate intervention was needed to assure the subjects safety the subject was withdrawn prior to consultation with the study medical monitor.Safety monitoring.
One subject on MMF withdrew at the subjects request and one on placebo withdrew at the physicians request. Two subjects on placebo had MG progression that did not require alternative therapy or withdrawal.Although the total QMG score improved over time in both treatment groups the extent of improvement in the MMF group was similar to that in the placebo group at week 12 treatment effect 0.37 95% CI 2.36 to 1.61 p 0.71 figure 2. The treatment groups did not significantly differ with respect to change over time in any of the secondary outcome variables for efficacy including change in AChR-Ab level table 2. The global assessment of response to study treatment also reflectedVertical bars indicate one SEM.Values are mean SD. Treatment effect is the difference in mean change between the mycophenolate mofetil group and the placebo group adjusted for center and the baseline value of the outcome variable in an analysis of covariance model. MMF mycophenolate mofetil QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis MMT manual muscle testing MG ADL myasthenia gravis activities of daily living AChR-Ab acetylcholine receptor antibody.Neurology 71 August 5 2008 397similar improvement in both treatment groups p 0.77 table e-2.Open-label phase.
MMF 2.5 g/day in combination with prednisone 20 mg/day was found to be well tolerated and there were no group differences in the mean changes from baseline to week 12 in vital signs or any of the monitoring laboratory test results.A major finding of this study was the unexpectedly high frequency of responders in both treatment groups 85% of subjects in the MMF group and 77% in the placebo group were judged by the investigator to have had improvement 37% in the MMF group and 39% in the placebo gr. oup were considered to have shown marked improvement. These results can be interpreted as showing that MMF has no additional benefit over prednisone therapy alone in the treatment of MG. However the results could also reflect a better-than-expected response of MG to 20 mg/day prednisone or selection of subjects with relatively mild and immunoresponsive MG. Selection for such subjects may have occurred at the level of referral for entry into the study if the possibility of randomization to a lower dosage of prednisone constituted in the opinion of referring physicians an unacceptable risk for patients with newly diagnosed MG.
MM is a novel and potent immunosuppressive agent that blocks purine synthesis thus selectively inhibiting T and B lymphocyte proliferation. Favorable results in refractory and steroid-dependent MG patients have been reported in open-label studies revealing a rapid onset of action and a safe side effect profile. Drug eruption due to toxicity or immune-mediated damage has not been reported in association with MM. A 32-year-old man with generalized seropositive MG with a highly malignant clinical course was admitted to the authors department due to an acute papulosquamous psoriatic-like skin eruption 1 month following treatment initiation with MM. Skin biopsy revealed sparse perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes intermingled with few eosinophils. Treatment with high-dose steroids together with discontinuation of MM induced a gradual improvement with complete resolution of the symptoms 2 months later. A severe and fulminant skin eruption in association with MM treatment is described for the first time in the literature. The histopathologic diagnosis of drug eruption is supported by the resolution of symptoms following discontinuation of MM.
Marked improvement was evident after 2 months. The patient reported a decrease in steroid and cyclosporine dose and significant clinical improvement he was even able to chew gum. About a month after treatment initiation areas of skin eruption appeared first on the back and then on the face and limbs progressing to a fulminant skin rash 3 months later covering almost the entire body. The differential diagnosis included papulosquamous disease with psoriatic elements versus drug eruption mimicking GVHD. Skin biopsy revealed From the Department of Neurology The Agnes Ginges Center for Human Neurogenetics and the Department of Dermatology Hadassah University Hospital and the Hebrew UniversityHadassah Medical School Jerusalem Israel. Reprints Netta Levin MD Department of Neurology Hadassah University Hospital Jerusalem 91120 Israel e-mail imbarlnetvision.net.il. Copyright 2005 by Lippincott Williams  Wilkins152 Clin Neuropharmacol Volume 28 Number 3 May - June 2005hyperkeratosis irregular acanthocytosis spongiosis apoptotic epidermal cells and sparse perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes intermingled with few eosinophils in the upper dermis Fig. 1 end.
This systemic increase in acetylcholine level can lead to side effects such as bradycardia hypotension arrhythmias bronchoconstriction hypersalivation diarrhea and increased gastric secretions.37 Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors require the adjuvant administration of an antimuscarinic agent to prevent these parasympathetic side effects. Glycopyrrolate is the antimuscarinic drug administered concurrently with neostigmine to prevent parasympathetic effects.Patients with myasthenia gravis are at increased risk of PORC because of existing neuromuscular transmission and functioning deficits. Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune disease that causes antibodies to target and destroy acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction. This decrease in the number of functioning acetylcholine receptors results in muscle fatigue and variable weakness.8 Implications for general anesthesia include characteristic symptoms of myasthenia gravis such as airway management dysphagia dysarthria aspiration pneumonia due to nasopharyngeal muscular weakness and difficulty in expelling airway secretions.8JBI Database of Systematic Reviews and Implementation Reports2018 Joanna Briggs Institute.
Its mechanism of action is to selectively encapsulate NMBA e.g. rocuronium vecuronium pancuronium that results in an essentially permanent tight water-soluble inclusion complex that prevents further attachment of the neuromuscular blocking drug to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.9 The rapid encapsulation of sugammadex to the steroidal NMBA occurs in a 11 ratio and creates a concentration gradient that promotes the extraction of additional neuromuscular blocker molecules from the nicotinic motor junction into the plasma compartment to permit their encapsula. tion as well.9Sugammadex offers two primary advances over traditional reversal methods its ability to induce a rapid speed of skeletal muscle recovery and the lack of muscarinic side effects associated with its administration.3 Prescribing information states that twitch response monitoring is indicated to2018 THE JOANNA BRIGGS INSTITUTE 1923d reproduction of this article is prohibited.determine timing and dosage of sugammadex following rocuronium or vecuronium administration.10 A dose of 2 mg/kg.
The overall cure rate was 85.7%. Although the mechanism of local hormone therapy for OMG remain unclear the clinical effect cannot be denied. Among numerous studies have investigated oral drug therapy for OMG few have examined strabismus ptosis or quantified measurements of the range of eye movement as outcomes 6 18 19. Kupersmith et al. 18 reported on the use of prednisone and pyridostigmine for the treatment of patients with OMG. One month later after treatment the degree of strabismus had not changed significantly in the pyridostigmine group and had decreased from 12.2 PD to 5.5 PD in the prednisone group. Among 51 patients who responded to prednisone treatment 26 experienced symptom recurrence as the dose of prednisone was decreased. At 2 years of followup only 12 of 55 patients in the prednisone group reported that symptoms were completely relieved. No patient in the pyridostigmine group was completely relieved. Park et al. 19 followed 20 patients with MG who had obvious paralytic strabismus as the initial symptom for 45.4  39.7 months. After systemic drug therapy hormone and cholinesterase inhibitor only 6 patients 21.4  11.1 had responded well to treatment and reported the disappearance of diplopia.
We found that the recovery of extraocular paralysis is the most difficult which may take several months and the recovery time is related to the degree of muscle paralysis. The recovery time is related to the degree of muscle paralysis. Compared with systemic steroids local dexamethasone injections have a faster onset in OMG patients. Oral steroid-induced clinical improvement usually begins within 2 to 4 weeks with marked improvement requiring 68 weeks 20. Notably although the direct injection of extraocular muscles was chosen the sequence of symptom recovery observed in patients of our study was similar to that observed in patients who received oral drug therapy 6 18 19 21.we also noted the neck muscle farthest from the injection point recovered fastest. We sought to identify the reason for this phenomenon. Nan et al. 22 reported that a single subTenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide TA was able to diffuse throughout the globe including the aqueous irisciliary body vitreous neuroretina retinal pigment epithelium and choroid with therapeutic concentrations maintained for at least 30 days. Roesel et al.
Results end. Both MMF and placebo-treated groups improved to the same degree during the blinded phasethere was no significant difference in the mean change in QMGS between the two groups. Improvement was unexpectedly high in both groups 85% in the MMF and 77% in the placebo group were judged by the site investigator to have improved with 37% in the MMF and 39% in the placebo group having marked improvement. During the open-label phase the prednisone dose was reduced by a similar amount in the MMF 8 mg/day and placebo groups 11 mg/day. The improvement was also similar in most secondary outcome measures in both groups. Study 2 end. An International Phase III Randomized Trial of Mycophenolate Mofetil in Myasthenia Gravis. In August 2004 Aspreva Pharmaceuticals began a parallel steroid-sparing study with the goal of seeking regulatory approval for MG as an added indication for MMF.16 This was a prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled parallel-group international multicenter trial to assess the efficacy and safety of adjunct MMF in 176 subjects aged 1880 years with generalized mild to moderately severe AChR-ab-positive MG who had taken at least 20 mg/day prednisone for at least 4 weeks TABLE 1.
The data were gathered from two large and robust MG trials with designs that mirrored clinical practice and produced nearly identical results. How can these results be reconciled with the positive outcomes of previous studies and many clinicians experience with MMF in MGIn our opinion several factors could have limited the ability of these studies to demonstrate efficacy of MMF in MG. Study Duration. In the MSG study the predicted onset of benefit and hence the duration of the blinded-phase was based on the following reports and observations An open-label pilot study of MMF in 12 patients with refractory or steroid-dependent MG showed that 67% improved within 2 months after MMF was begun.3  A retrospective review reported clinical improvement in two-thirds of 85 MMF-treated patients with MG beginning at a mean of 10.8 weeks.5  In a review of 25 MG patients at two institutions who improved af. ter beginning MMF 22 showed improvement of at least 3 QMG points after 2 months.This experience suggested that MMF produces clinically significant improvement within 2 months in more than 90% of responders.
Although a validated assessment tool in MG QMGS is not routinely used by many centers. Lack of experience of the participating sites with this scoring system may have affected the study results. Also the composite outcome measure used in the Aspreva trial may have been too rigorous to demonstrate a lesser but clinically significant response. Conclusions. Obviously these studies have significant implications for MG patients currently taking MMF future MG patients treating physicians and future study designs. Should MMF be abandoned as a treatment for MG based on these studies Opinions about this are sharply divided even among the authors of these papers who have extensive experience with MMF some have stopped prescribing MMF some then had the experience of patients relapsing when it was discontinued and others believe the final answer is not in. While a conclusion that MMF is not effective in MG has the virtue of superficial simplicity and decisiveness the risk is that a potentially useful drug is prematurely set aside because of factors related to the study designs. Our usage of MMF in MG will not be determined by these results alone and we feel that more study will be required before the full potential of MMF in MG is known.
Immunosuppression related to HIV infection immunosuppressive treatment organ transplantation and neoplastic diseases increases the risk for Leishmania-infected people to develop visceral illness. Case presentation Three cases of Leishmania infantum leishmaniasis in corticosteroid CStreated patients are reported an isolated lingual leishmaniasis in a farmer treated with CS for asthma a severe visceral leishmaniasis associated with cutaneous lesions in a woman with myasthenia gravis and a visceral involvement after cutaneous leishmaniasis in a man receiving CS. Conclusion Physicians should recognise CS-treated patients as a population likely to be immunesuppressed. In immunodeficiency conditions unusual forms of leishmaniasis can develop and foster the risk of a diagnostic delay and of poor response to therapy. Background The number of leishmaniasis cases associated with immunosuppression has increased regularly over the past 20 years. Immunosuppression related to HIV infection drugs organ transplantation and neoplastic diseases increases the risk for Leishmania-infected people to develop visceral illness. In southwestern Europe visceral leishmaniasis VL is the clinical form most frequently associated to immunosuppression particularly to HIV infection 12.
Our three patients lived in rural areas of central Italy Latium and Tuscany regions where both visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis are endemic. In the past 7 years some 200 cases of visceral leishmaniasis were recorded from these regions and in most of the patients parasites have been identified as L.infantum by means of isoenzyme analysis unpublished data from Istituto Superiore di Sanit Rome. Our first case is a paradigmatic description of the classical lip leishmaniasis that occurred over centuries in Southern Europe. The finding of a viscerotropic Leishmania as cause of a localized leishmaniasis poses the question whether the lesions observed may represent the site of the parasite inoculation or a secondary localization 10. The absence of clinical immunological and parasitological evidence of generalized parasite dissemination in the first case strongly supports the former hypothesis rather than secondary spread from an initial unknown source. Nevertheless the use of steroids and the elderly age of the patient could suggest a secondary involvement of the tongue 10.
Particularly a laryngeal leishmaniasis case has been described in a UK patient undergoing inhalation and oral steroid therapy for asthma who frequently visited Southern Europe without extra European travels 11.In the further two cases the prolonged steroid use was likely to be associated to the clinical severity of the disease 1314. In the female patient affected by myasthenia the relapses the clinical spread to the gastrointestinal tract and the severe T lymphocyte defects were all factors likely to be related to the sustained impairment of the immune response. The third case shows the visceral involvement of a leishmaniasis case initially confined to the skin region only. The cutaneous leishmaniasis must be differentiated from sporotrichosis mycobacteriosis sarcoidosis syphilis lupus vulgaris and neoplasms in general the histologic examination led to the correct diagnosis. The peri-oral lesions shared characteristics similar to those of the postkala-azar dermal leishmaniasis PKDL 15. In our case the diagnosis of PKDL was excluded by the finding of parasites in the bone marrow.The need of an early clinical advice of the leishmanias diagnosis during the evaluation of HIV febrile patients living in an endemic area is well-known.
In 2015 a multicenter cross-sectional studyrevealed that higher PSL dose and longer PSL treatment do not ensure better outcome.In the absence of good response the PSL dose should be decreased by combining withmodalities such as plasma exchange/plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulinfast-acting treatments. In 2018 we conducted a multicenter cross-sectional studyin a large population of Japanese patients with generalized MG aiming to elucidatethe correlation between oral PSL regimens and achievement of treatment goals. TheORs for low vs. high dose to achieve treatment goals at 1 2 and 3 years were 10.42.75 and 1.86 respectively whereas the corresponding ORs for low vs. medium dosewere 13.4 3.99 and 4.92. Early combination with fast-acting therapy OR 2.19 at 2years 2.11 at 3 years or combination with calcineurin inhibitors OR 2.09 at 2 years2.36 at 3 years were also positively associated with achieving treatment goals. Theseresults indicate that early combination of low-dose PSL regimens with other therapiesis the key for early achievement of treatment goals in generalized MG. However evenwith this regimen 35% of patients did not achieve the treatment target after 3 years.These results suggest the limitation of the current oral corticosteroid therapy.
This binding leads to dissociation of heat shock protein 90 and induces transport of the GCGR complex across nuclear membrane to the nucleus. In the nucleus the GC-GR complex binds with various genetic promoters and enhancers of genomic DNA according to the GC responsive elements to regulate the transcription of the target genes 21. These mechanisms would suggest that higher doses of corticosteroids are effective to activate more GRs to obtain favorable anti-inflammatory/immunosuppressiveFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 2 August 2020  Volume 11  Article 868effects. Indeed it is known that high doses of GCs inhibit immunoglobulin synthesis kill B cells 30 and decrease production of components of the complement system 31.Then the clinical question is Does higher doses of corticosteroids ensure better outcome in MG treatment. IS HIGH-DOSE CORTICOSTEROID SUPERIOR TO LOW-DOSE IN MG TREATMENT. end. Oral Corticosteroid Therapy and Present Disease Status in MG. As described in the history of MG therapy oral corticosteroids are traditionally used at high doses with escalation and deescalation schedules.
These patients were divided by current status into a group of MM or better complete stable remission pharmacological remissionMM n 226 and a group of improved or worsening status improvement unchanged worse or exacerbation n  246 Figure 1. There was no significant difference in baseline severity based on clinical classification ofMGFA between theMM or better group and the improved or worse group by Pearson 2 test. The treatment duration with PSL was also similar in the twogroups 6.5 6.4 vs. 7.1 7.0 years p 0.56. Patients taking<5 mg/day of oral PSL were more likely to be classified in the MM or better than in the improved or worse group 75.2 vs. 48.8% p < 0.0001. The daily dose of PSL was significantly lower in the MM or better group than in the improved or worse group 4.7  5.3 vs. 7.3  6.5mg p < 0.0001. The duration of taking PSL 10 mg/day was significantly shorter in the MM or better group than in the improved or worse group 1020 mg/day 1.9  4.0 vs. 2.1  3.9 years p  0.01 20 mg/day or more 0.6  1.2 vs. 1.4  3.5 years p  0.0002. In addition cumulative PSL doses received in the past year was smaller in the MM or better group than in the improved or worse group 1705.9 1791.2 vs. 2460.2  2009.8mg p < 0.0001.
These results suggest that early combination of low-dose PSL regimens with other therapies is useful for early achievement of treatment goals in patients withgeneralized MG. However only 64.1% of patients who received low-dose PSL therapy were able to achieve the treatment goal until 3 years Table 3. Approximately 35% of patients did not achieve satisfactory outcomes with the new treatment strategy. These results suggest the limitations of current oral corticosteroid therapy and the need to improve the safety and efficacy of corticosteroid therapy. FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS. Oral corticosteroids may be effective for good responders regardless of dosage. MG patients who respond well for various reasons may be able to reduce the dosage of steroids with less difficulty because dose reduction may follow the achievement of good outcome but not cause the outcome. Moreover itFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 5 August 2020  Volume 11  Article 868is not necessary to use high dosage of oral corticosteroids because a number of new treatment options are now available to achieve good outcome. It is time to reconsider high-dose steroid treatment for MG and seek a novel strategy based on patients QOL.
In this case further development of steroid drugs is required.Over the past few decades considerable efforts have been devoted to increase the potency of corticosteroids while minimizing their side effects by modifying the chemical structure of natural GCs 49. Alternative splicing alternative translation initiation of mature mRNAs and post-translational modifications have generated multiple GR isoforms with unique expression gene regulation and functional profiles which have advanced our understanding of the molecular basis of GC susceptibility diversity. Genome-wide GR recruitment studies have shown significant difference of tissue-specific chromatin landscape in GC susceptibility 50.An important challenge in the clinical application of GC is the heterogeneity of GC response between individuals. Advancesin our understanding of GC expression patterns may reveal important mechanisms of poor response in MG treatment. The breakthrough may accelerate not only the design of novel therapeutic strategies for poor responders but also the prediction of enhanced response to corticosteroids for good responders.
For MG score a decrease of 3 or more points was considered an improvement while an increase of 3 or more points was considered as worsening. For ADL a change by 1 point or more was considered improvement/worsening. Titres of anti-AChR antibodies were measured by the immunoprecipitation method using human AChR labelled with 125I-a-bungarotoxin as antigen.4. RESULTS end. We treated 12 patients three men nine women age range 2859 years with generalised MG. The duration of disease was 431 years. All patients had undergone thymectomy 328 years before entry into this study and four patients 33% nos. 1 4 6 11 had non-invasive thymoma. Patient numbers were carried over from the previous study.4At the end of the long term study after 88104 weeks of treatment two patients nos. 4 12 who had shown no change in the short term study showed improvement one patient no. 3 who had exhibited no change in the short term study had worsening of MG score. Overall compared with scores at entry the total MG score improved in five patients nos. 1 4 12 16 17 and no change was observed in six nos. 6 8 11 13 14 15 table 1. All patients had ADL scores of 2 or 3 at entry with half of the patients showing improvement at the end of the study three patients 25% nos.
Suspect norcardiosis in patients with CNS soft tissue or cutaneous lesions and a concurrent pulmonary process. 1Internal Medicine Division Department of Medicine Creighton University School of Medicine Omaha NE USA 2Alegent-Creighton Health Creighton University Medical Center Omaha NE USA 3VA Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System Department of Neurological Sciences University of Nebraska Medical Center Omaha NE USA.KEY WORDS Nocardia myasthenia grav is  prednisone immunocompromised. J Gen Intern Med DOI 10.1007/s11606-013-2445-x  Society of General Internal Medicine 2013A 79-year-old male with myasthenia gravis on chronicprednisone therapy presented with progressive left leg pain and swelling and nonproductive cough for one month. Physical examination was significant for multiple irregular tender areas of induration in his bilateral lower extremities without overlying erythema. Laboratory data were significant for a white cell count of 12400/cmm.MRI showed multifocal abscesses in his bilateral lower extremities within the muscle beds which were more significant on the left Fig. 1 end. He underwent ultrasoundguided drainage of the large abscesses. Cultures grew Nocardia pseudobrasiliensis sensitive to moxifloxacin.
Morbidity in MG results from intermittent impairment of muscle strength which in early stages can cause speech problems double vision and generalized weakness and as stated earlier jeopardizes fl ying capabilities. Morbidity in advanced stages may involve aspirations recurrent pneumonias and falls. Diagnosis of MG is disqualifying from fl ying duties according to the policy of the Federal Aviation Administration United States Air Force Navy and Army  1  3 . A waiver is most likely to be granted only after the patient is in complete remission and receives no active therapy  13  15 .In accordance with well-accepted standards of aeromedical practice to be considered acceptable for fl ying duty a medical condition medication or treatment must 1 not pose a risk of sudden incapacitation 2 not interfere with the individuals ability to perform fl ight duties nor impact the safe operation of the aircraft to include egress if necessary 3 not interfere with t.
In the low-dose group PSL was maintained at a maximum dose of 20 mg/day usually 10 mg/day. When the symptoms did not improve sufficiently even when the dose was titrated up to 20 mg/day other treatment options such as CNIs and EFT PE/PP intravenous Ig or HMP were added to improve residual symptoms rapidly. The intermediate-dose group included patients who were treated with PSL 20 mg/day for longer than 3 months or who did not belong to either the high-dose or low-dose group. In all patients the PSL dosing regimen was decided at the time of treatment initiation and was not changed during the course of treatment.All clinical information and blood samples were collected after informed consent was obtained from each subject.statistical analysis The clinical immunological and therapeutic parameters were compared between three groups using one-way analysis of variance ANOVA followed by Tukey-Kramer test for continuous variables or Pearsons 2 test for categorical variables. Also multivariate logistic regression modelling was performed to determine independent predictive factors for MM-or-better-5mg at 1 2 and 3 years after treatment was started.
The low-dose group showed remarkably higher rates of combined uses of EFT and CNIs.Independent predictors for MM-or-better-5mg identified by multivariate logistic regression modelling Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified low-dose regimen as the sole independent positive predictor to achieve MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months after 1 year of treatment table 3. The ORs were 10.4 95% CI 4.54 to 25.2 P<0.0001 for low-dose versus high-dose regimen and 13.4 95% CI 5.69 to 34.8 P<0.0001 for low-dose versus intermediate-dose regimen. The analysis also identified EFT early use of CNIs and low-dose regimen as significant independent positive predictors to achieve MM-or-better-5mg for 6 months after 2 and 3 years of treatment. The ORs 95% CI were 2.19 1.11 to 4.42 after 2 years P0.02 and 2.11 1.03 to 4.44 after 3 years P0.04 for EFT 2.09 1.09 to 4.06 after 2 years P0.03 and 2.36 1.13 to 5.09 after 3 years P0.02 for early use of CNIs 2.75 1.31 to 5.88 after 2 years P0.007 and 1.86 0.79 to 4.49 after 3 years P0.15 not significant for low-dose versus highdose regimen and 3.99 1.86 to 8.81 after 2 years P0.0003 and 4.92 2.00 to 12.6 after 3 years P0.0004 for low-dose versus intermediate-dose regimen.
sity hospital and Dr Y Shimizu and Dr R Ikeguchi Department of Neurology Tokyo Womens Medical University for collection of patient data.contributors TI KU hM ET and YN involved in conception and design of the work. TI KU hM ET YN YS NM AU NK MM SK hS TA and MA involved in acquisition of data. TI involved in analysis and interpretation of data drafted the article. All other coauthors revised the article critically for important intellectual content.competing interests None declared.Patient consent Obtained.ethics approval The ethics committees of each of the participating institutions approved the study protocols.Provenance and peer review Not commissioned externally peer reviewed. Article authors or their employers unless otherwise stated in the text of the article 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless otherwise expressly granted. Fracture rate in patients with myasthenia gravis the general practice research database. Summary The aim of this study was to evaluate fracture risk after onset of myasthenia gravis using the UK General Practice Research Database.
Introduction Myasthenia gravis MG is a neuromuscular disease which has been associated with an increased falls risk and glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis recognized determinants of increased fracture risk. The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of fracture after onset of MG. Methods We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the UK General Practice Research Database 19872009. Each MG patient was matched by age sex calendar time and practice to up to six patients without a history of MG and we identified all fractures and those associated with osteoporosis. Results Compared to the control cohort there was no statistically significant increased risk observed in patients with MG for any fracture adjusted hazard ratio AHR 1.11 95 % confidence interval CI 0.841.47 or osteoporotic fractures AHR 0.98 95 % CI 0.671.41. Further use of oral glucocorticoids up to a cumulative dose exceeding 5 g prednisolone equivalents did not increase risk of osteoporotic fracture AHR 0.99 95 % CI 0.313.14 compared with MG patients without glucocorticoid exposure. However fracture risk was higher in patients with MG prescribed antidepressants AHR 3.27 95 % CI 1.636.55 anxiolytics AHR 2.18 95 % CI 1.044.57 and anticonvulsants AHR 6.88 95 % CI 2.9116.27.
These findings have implications in strategies preserving bone health in patients with MG. S end. Pouwels A. de Boer H. G end. Leufkens  F. de Vries Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences Universiteit Utrecht Utrecht the Netherlands M. K end. Javaid  C. Cooper Oxford NIHR Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit Department of Orthopaedics Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences University of Oxford Oxford UK D. Hilton-Jones Department of Clinical Neurology University of Oxford Oxford UK J. Verschuuren Department of Neurology Leiden University Medical Centre Leiden the Netherlands C. Cooper  F. de Vries MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit University of Southampton Southampton UK F. de Vries Department of Clinical Pharmacy  Toxicology Maastricht University Medical Centre Maastricht the Netherlands F. de Vries  Universiteitsweg 99 3584 CG Utrecht the Netherlands e-mail f.devriesuu.nl Osteoporos Int 2013 24467476 DOI 10.1007/s00198-012-1970-5. Introduction Myasthenia gravis MG is a neuromuscular disease which has been associated with an increased falls risk and glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis recognized determinants of increased fracture risk. The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of fracture after onset of MG.
K end. Javaid  C. Cooper Oxford NIHR Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit Department of Orthopaedics Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences University of Oxford Oxford UK D. Hilton-Jones Department of Clinical Neurology University of Oxford Oxford UK J. Verschuuren Department of Neurology Leiden University Medical Centre Leiden the Netherlands C. Cooper  F. de Vries MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit University of Southampton Southampton UK F. de Vries Department of Clinical Pharmacy  Toxicology Maastricht University Medical Centre Maastricht the Netherlands F. de Vries  Universiteitsweg 99 3584 CG Utrecht the Netherlands e-mail f.devriesuu.nlKeywords Corticosteroids . Epidemiology . Fracture . Myasthenia gravis . Osteoporosis. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an automimmune disorder with symptoms of muscle weakness and fatigability in which antibodies reduce the number of acetylcholine receptors at the post-synaptic region of the neuromuscular junction 1. MG is relatively rare with an estimated pooled incidence rate of 5.3 per million person-years and an estimated pooled prevalence rate of 77.7 per million persons 2.
In these analyses osteoporotic fractures were reported in respectively seven and four MG patients. The interaction term between MG and oral glucocorticoids did not reach statistical significance p value>0.05 for any and for typical osteoporotic fractures Table 4. Finally a sensitivity analysis in which 645 MG patients without exposure to osteoporosis therapies and their 3647 controls were left a diagnosis of MG did not alter risk of any AHR 1.21 95 % CI 0.841.74 or typical osteoporotic fracture AHR 1.44 95 % CI 0.892.34.Conversely within the group of incident MG patients risk of fracture was twofold higher in those with a recent use of antidepressants AHR 2.15 95 % CI 1.223.79 twofoldTable 2 Risk of fracture in incident MG patients by type of fracture ge. nder and age compared to patients without MGNumber of fracturesRate/1000 person-yearsAgesex adjusted HR 95 % CIFully adjusted HR 95 % CIaNo MG 426 12.6 1.00 1.00MG any fracture 75 14.2 1.19 0.931.52 1.11 0.841.47Fracture at osteoporotic sites 43 8.2 1.13 0.821.56 0.98 0.671.41 Hip fracture 8 1.5 0.85 0.411.77 0.61 0.261.45b Vertebral fracture 9 1.7 2.85 1.316.18 2.13 0.825.51c Radius/ulna fracture 11 2.1 0.92 0.491.73 1.02 0.512.04d Other fracture 15 2.8 1.00 0.581.71 0.86 0.471.59e Fracture at .
use 28 0.88 0.521.47 16 0.75 0.381.50<2.5 g prednisolone eq 13 0.80 0.421.53 7 0.63 0.261.532.55.0 g prednisolone eq 10 1.11 0.542.26 5 0.83 0.312.25>05.0 g prednisolone eq 5 0.73 0.271.94 4 0.99 0.313.14MG by history of drug use in previous 6 monthsNo oral glucocorticoid use 48 1.00 28 1.00Oral glucocorticoid use 27 0.97 0.581.63 15 0.81 0.401.61<7.5 mg prednisolone eq/day 10 0.99 0.492.03 5 0.70 0.261.927.515 mg prednisolone eq/day 8 1.00 0.462.16 3 0.57 0.171.93>015 mg prednisolone eq/day 9 0. .93 0.441.99 7 1.17 0.472.89No antidepressant use 59 1.00 31 1.00Antidepressant use 16 2.15 1.223.79 12 3.27 1.636.55<20 mg fluoxetine eq/day 9 1.88 0.923.86 7 2.77 1.186.50>020 mg fluoxetine eq/day 7 2.61 1.185.80 5 4.32 1.6411.38No anxiolytic use 61 1.00 32 1.00Anxiolytic use 14 1.80 0.973.34 11 2.18 1.044.57<10 mg diazepam eq/day 10 1.72 0.853.47 8 2.10 0.904.86>010 mg diazepam eq/day 4 2.07 0.735.82 3 2.41 0.718.12No anticonvulsant use 64 1.00 36 1.00Anticonvulsant use 11 5.36 2.7610.39 7 6.
In theory the positive effects of acetylcholine on bone turnover could level out the negative effects of oral glucocorticosteroids on bone which would explain our findings. Moreover a recent study performed by Wakata et al. 31 showed that Japanese MG patients who received long-term 8.2 years high-dose prednisolone therapy maximum 80100 mg for 46 weeks had a 50 % reduced osteoporosis rate as compared to the general population. A second explanation for lower HRs in MG patients on glucocorticoids is that generally patients treated with glucocorticoids are exposed to an inflammatory disease. Subsequently the disease may increase the risk for fracture itself like rheumatoid arthritis 32. This inflammatory compound is generally not present in MG patients except for some inflammatory cells that may be present in muscle 33. An alternative explanation is that glucocorticoids may decrease fracture risk associated with the disease thus cancelling out its adverse effects. A last explanation is that MG patients are often treated on alternate days with glucocorticoids 15.
This issue warrants further research. In theory high-dose prednisolone might exacerbate MG which could have interfered with the analyses. However glucocorticoid treatment is regularly started with a low dose which is gradually increased 14 15. This minimizes the risk of an exacerbation.In conclusion this study showed that MG was not associated with a statistically significant increased fracture risk not even among MG patients who received high-dose oralTable 5 Risk of any fracture and fracture at osteoporotic sites in incident MG patients by severity compared to patients without MGRisk of any fracture Risk of fracture at osteoporotic siteNumber of fracturesFully adjusted HR 95 % CIaNumber of fracturesFully adjusted HR 95 % CIaMG by se. verity steps based on pyridostigmine and immunosuppressants use in the 6 months priorbGrade 1 no use 28 1.00 15 1.00Grade 2 immunosuppressants only 13 0.67 0.162.80 6 0.81 0.135.04Grade 3 pyridostigmine only 17 0.99 0.541.83 11 1.14 0.512.54Grade 4 both immunosuppressant and pyridostigmine use17 0.34 0.071.60 11 0.48 0.073.42a Adjusted for the same confounders as described below Table 2 for any and osteoporotic fracture but the confounder is not added to the model if it is similar to the drug be.
Efficacy and safety of tacrolimus for myasthenia gravis a systematic review and meta-analysis. to 0.23 p  0.02 in the quantitative myasthenia gravis score and 1.10 1.84 to 0.36 p  0.004 in the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living score at 6 months. Adverse events were recorded in 80 of 347 patients 23% treated with tacrolimus and most of them were mild. This meta-analysis proves that tacrolimus therapy is beneficial to improve clinical symptoms in MG patients. Tacrolimus may be a worthy therapy to relieve MG symptoms. Vol.0123456789to 0.23 p0.02 in the quantitative myasthenia gravis score and 1.10 1.84 to 0.36 p0.004 in the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living score at 6months. Adverse events were recorded in 80 of 347 patients 23% treated with tacrolimus and most of them were mild. This meta-analysis proves that tacrolimus therapy is beneficial to improve clinical symptoms in MG patients. Tacrolimus may be a worthy therapy to relieve MG symptoms.Keywords Tacrolimus Myasthenia gravis Immunotherapy Antibody. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction NMJ mediated by antibodies against synaptic membrane proteins. It generally presents with fatigable muscle weakness.
They include antibodies against muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK low density lipoprotein receptor related protein LRP4 and other proteins specific to the NMJ 2.The target of MG treatment is to reduce the symptom of weakness and maintain remission and avoid unnecessary side effects. Current therapeutic options in myasthenia gravis are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors glucocorticoids GC intravenous immunoglobulin plasma exchange thymectomy monoclonal antibody and immunosuppressive agents including azathioprine cyclosporine cyclophosphamide mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus 3. GC and azathioprine remain the first-line medical treatment. However not all patients respond well to them. Besides long-term GCLiang Wang Suxian Zhang and Jianying Xi equally contributed to this work. Tiansong Zhang ztsdoctor126.com Chongbo Zhao zhaochongbofudan.edu.cn1 Department ofNeurology Huashan Hospital Fudan University Shanghai200040 China2 Department ofChinese Traditional Medicine Jingan District Centre Hospital ofShanghai Shanghai200040 China3 Department ofNeurology Childrens Hospital ofFudan University Shanghai200040 China4 Department ofNeurology Jingan District Centre Hospital ofShanghai S.
Other immunosuppressive agents have shown insufficient efficacy with obvious side effects in refractory MG 5.Tacrolimus FK506 is a novel macrolide immunosuppressant derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis 6 and functions in a manner similar to cyclosporine but much more potent. This drug inhibits calcineurin activity and then the formation of a number of cytokines that interact with helper T-cells resulting in T cell suppression and subsequent reduction in antibodies produced by B-cells 7. It has already been used successfully in the field of organ transplantation 810 polymyositis 11 rheumatoid arthritis 12 13 and systemic lupus erythematous 14 15.Recently tacrolimus is recommended as a second-line therapy for long-term use in MG patients who are unresponsive or intolerant of traditional immunosuppressants 16. Emerging clinical studies demonstrated that tacrolimus can effectively and safely improve the condition of MG patients even the patients with refractory MG 1728. To date the systematic review and meta-analysis of tacrolimus therapy for MG is still lacking. Therefore we performed one to explore its efficacy and safety. Objectives. We aim to examine the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus in inducing improvement and remission of MG. Methods end. end.
end. Types ofstudies. We searched for each randomized controlled trial RCT and clinical controlled trial CCT limited to human studies involving any forms of tacrolimus for the treatment of MG in two treatment arms. Types ofparticipants. We included all MG participants diagnosed by the trial authors according to clinical findings electromyography or serum anti-AChR antibodies. They were also evaluated clinically at onset with the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA 29 Clinical Classification. The demographic and clinical characteristics of all patients were considered. Types ofinterventions. We included all randomized or quasi-randomized clinical study with a tacrolimus arm assessing the efficacy of tacrolimus versus placebo or other immunosuppressants or immunomodulatory therapy combined with tacrolimus versus the same treatment combined with placebo. The dose of tacrolimus in each study was extracted to discuss the efficacy of different doses. Types ofoutcome measures. We summarized all obvious outcome measures in each randomized or quasi-randomized clinical study for the assessment of the efficacy of tacrolimus in MG. Only some studies had comparable outcome measures. Some trial authors did not clearly define the primary and secondary endpoints.
Adverse reactions were abstracted from each study to evaluate the safety of tacrolimus. Primary outcomes. Current GC dose. Secondary outcomes. 1 end. Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America quantitative myasthenia gravis score QMG. 2 end. Myasthenia Gravis activities of daily living score ADL. 3 end. Number of plasmapheresis immunoadsorption method IA and high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone HMP treatment. 4 end. Ratio of serum acetylcholine receptor AChR antibody. 5 end. Manual muscle test score MMT. Search methods foridentification ofstudies. end. Electronic searches. Two reviewers Liang Wang and Suxian Zhang independently searched PubMed from January 1966 to April 2017 and Embase from January 1974 to April 2017 using the terms myasthenia gravis and tacrolimus. The search was limited to RCTs or CCTs of human studies written English. Case reports and reviews were excluded from this systematic review. We checked the published data provided in the1 3original studies and contacted the corresponding authors to ask for additional unpublished data. Data collection andanalysis. end. Selection ofstudies. Three reviewers Liang Wang Suxian Zhang and Jianying Xi checked the titles and abstracts in primary screening and then the full text in the secondary screening.
Data extraction andmanagement. Data extraction was performed by two reviewers Liang Wang and Suxian Zhang with a standardized data extraction table and was checked by one reviewer Jianying Xi. We re-reviewed any contradictory data and reached a consensus with discussion. Assessment ofrisk ofbiases inincluded studies. Two reviewers Liang Wang and Suxian Zhang independently judged each risk of bias and evaluated methodological quality of the included studies. The evaluation of methodological quality of the studies included random sequence generation allocation concealment patient blinding observer blinding incomplete outcome data selective reporting and other bias 30. We judged each risk of bias as high low or unclear. The studies would be reassessed if there was any contradiction and an agreement would be reached with discussion. Assessment ofheterogeneity. The Chi-squared test was employed to analyze the presence of heterogeneity and we judged its extent with the I2 statistics. The significance level  was set as 0.1. Statistical heterogeneity was considered insignificant if the p value of the Chi-squared test was 0.1. If the value was <0.1 heterogeneity was thought significant and interpreted in accordance with the I2 statistics.
Assessment ofreporting biases. Funnel plot was employed to analyze the reporting bias if the number of included studies exceeds ten. Data synthesis. Data analysis was performed with the Revman5.3 software. Most outcome measures included in the meta-analysis were continuous variables although there were some differences among each outcome measure. Means of each outcome measure squared differences SDs and number of the MG patients were included in the quantitative analysis. Weighted mean differences WMDs and 95% confidence intervals CIs were expressed as response index of tacrolimus against placebo when the evaluation scale was similar while standard mean differences SMDs and 95% CIs were employed when the evaluation scale differed greatly. Statistical significance was set at <0.05. We analyzed the endpoints using a random-effects meta-analysis model. Subgroup analysis andinvestigation ofheterogeneity. We would try to trace the origin of heterogeneity with a subgroup analysis considering participants with and without thymectomy or thymoma time of duration since onset intervention duration 6 and <6months. Sensitivity analysis.
However thymoma-associated MG patients usually involved severe symptoms and got higher QMG score before tacrolimus treatment. Furukawa etal. reported that compared with GC alone the difference of ADL score was not significant after 36months therapy with tacrolimus plus GC 37. It was possible that the conditions of the patients were not quite well during the course in the Utsugisawas study 34 thus less likely to exhibit a difference.Other studies have shown that long-term tacrolimus therapy could significantly decrease the AChR antibodies 20 21 36 39. One clinical study reported there was no significant difference in the ratio of serum AChR antibodies between the patients treated with tacrolimus plus GC and those treated with GC alone for 24months from the beginning of therapy. But the ratio of serum AChR antibodies was significantly lower in the patients treated with tacrolimus plus GC at 30 and 36months 37. Utsugisawa etal. reported despite remission of symptoms serum AChR antibodies was not reduced in the first month after tacrolimus therapy of MG 42. In this study compared with values before tacrolimus therapy AChR antibody ratio was not significantly lower at 1month but significantly lower up to 6months.
2016YFC0901504.Compliance with ethical standardsConflicts of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest. Favorable Effects of Tacrolimus Monotherapy on Myasthenia Gravis Patients. Background and Purpose Tacrolimus TAC has been proven to be a rapid-acting steroid-sparing agent for myasthenia gravis MG therapy. However evidence related to the effectiveness of TAC alone is rare. Therefore this study was performed to investigate the effect of TAC monotherapy in MG patients. Methods Forty-four MG patients who received TAC monotherapy were retrospectively analyzed. A mixed effect model was used to analyze improvements in MG-specific activities of daily living scale MG-ADL quantitative MG score QMG and MG-ADL subscores. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the cumulative probability of minimal manifestations MM or better. Adverse events AEs were recorded for safety analyses. Results Of the patients receiving TAC monotherapy MG-ADL scores were remarkably improved at 3 6 and 12 months compared with scores at baseline mean difference and 95% CIs 3.29 4.94 1.64 3.97 5.67 2.27 and 4.67 6.48 2.85 respectively. QMG scores significantly decreased at 6 and 12 months with mean differences and 95% CIs of 4.676.88 2.45 and 5.77 7.55 4.00 respectively.
It is usually necessary for patients to maintain immunosuppression agent for many years even for their whole life 1 2. Corticosteroids are the most common immunosuppressive agents for MG patients. However long-term therapy of corticosteroids is usually limited by severe adverse events AEs mood symptoms and cosmetic problems 35. In recent decades non-steroidalimmunosuppressive agents including azathioprine AZA methotrexate MTX mycophenolate mofetil MMF and cyclosporine A CsA have been successfully used in conjunction with corticosteroids to reduce the dose and side effects of corticosteroids 6. However the relatively slow onset of action of AZA MTX and MMF and the severe nephrotoxicity of CsA limits their use in the treatment of MG 710.Tacrolimus TAC acts in a manner similar to CsA and exhibits a similar effect to CsA at concentrations 100 times lower 11. Moreover it has a lower incidence of nephrotoxicity than CsA 12. Several studies have proven that TAC co-administered with corticosteroids can rapidly improve myasthenic symptoms subjectively within 1 month and objectively at 23 months 1315. TAC is recommended to treat MG in different countries and the international MG treatment guidelines 2 16 17.
The estimatedmedian period to achieve MM or better was 5.0 95% CIs 2.87.2 months. KaplanMeier analysis showed no differences in cumulative probabilities between OMG and GMG P-value  0.764 Figure 3B. The estimated median periods were 5.1 95% CIs 3.96.2 and 3.0 95% CIs 1.05.1 months for OMG and GMG respectively.The treatment was discontinued in 1 patient on days 95 and 2 patients on days 182 to 190 because it was judged to be ineffective by the treating physician Figure 1. No patients experienced exacerbation or developed a crisis during the follow-up period. Differential Sensitivity of TAC Monotherapy for MG Symptoms. A total of 68.2% of patients 30/44 reported subjective improvement of ptosis within the first month. The median values of MG-ADL subscores during follow-up periods are shown in Table 3. The linear mixed model showed significant improvements inMG-ADL subcores for ptosis and chewing from the first month and for talking and swallowing from 3 months compared with baseline P-value < 0.05 Figure 4. For the symptoms of diplopia and limbs subscores of MG-ADL showed no significant improvement until 6 months and 12 months respectively. For breathing difficulty no significant improvement was observed during the follow-up periods Figure 4.
An interesting finding in this study was that 25 patients 56.8% complained of photophobia or light sensitivity along with the onset of MG symptoms. Among them 44% of patients 11/25 achieved clinical improvement and 16% of patients 4/25 got remissionFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 4 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152FIGURE 2  Therapeutic effects of tacrolimus monotherapy. AB Therapeutic effects in all patients were evaluated by changes in MG-ADL scores A and by changes in QMG scores B. CD Therapeutic effects in subgroups of OMG and GMG were evaluated by changes in MG-ADL C and by changes in QMG scores D. The effect was the mean difference of MG-ADL or QMG scores during the follow-up periods. Statistical analysis was performed by linear mixed model for repeated measurements with Bonferroni correction. QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis score MG-ADL myasthenia gravis activities of daily living OMG ocular myasthenia gravis GMG generalized myasthenia gravis.in photophobia after 6 months treatment. Almost all of patients with photophobia had symptom of ptosis 24/25. Five of these patients 20.8% reported clinical improvement of photophobia earlier than or along with the improvement of ptosis. Safety of TAC Monotherapy.
Six months later more than 65% of individuals achieved MM or better. Monotherapy with TAC in MG patients showed similar rapid onset of action clinical effectiveness and stable remission to those in whom TAC was coadministered with corticosteroids 1315. Our results suggested that TAC monotherapy is a reasonable option for patients who refuse or have contraindications for corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents.The sensitivity to TAC monotherapy for various symptoms was differential. Wakata reported that the symptoms of lower extremities grip strength ptosis and swallowing responded well to TAC in combination with corticosteroids 24. The percentage improvement in the non-facial composite arm and leg outstretch times grip forced vital capacity and head lift was less than that for vision and facial ptosis diplopia swallowing and chewing with CsA alone or CsA co-administered with corticosteroids 19 20. In our study a better response and a more rapid onset of action were observed for ptosis and bulbar symptoms talking chewing swallowing than for diplopia dyspnea and limb weakness. Therefore TAC monotherapy could be recommended as the initial treatment for GMG patients with bulbar symptoms and for OMG patients with ptosis who had an inadequate response to pyridostigmine.
Last most patients evaluated had either OMG or mild GMG MGFA clinical classification type II. There were only seven patients classified as MGFA type III or IV. More patients with MGFA type III or IV or high-quality RCT trials will be needed to further prove the efficacy of TAC monotherapy in MG patients. CONCLUSIONS. TAC monotherapy is a fast-acting and efficacious regimen to alleviate all common symptoms of both OMG and GMG especially for patients with ptosis and bulbar symptoms. Close monitoring of renal function is essential for older patients with hypertension. DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT. The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.Frontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org 8 October 2020  Volume 11  Article 594152. ETHICS STATEMENT. The studies involving human participants were reviewed and approved by Ethics Committee of Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University China No. 2017084 end. Written informed consent to participate in this study was provided by the participants legal guardian/next of kin. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS. ZF contributed with drafting and revising the manuscript study concept and design acquisition of data and statistical analysis.
Numbers and half-life of AChR are diminished by an antibodyrelated reaction. However approximately 10% to 30% of MG patients lack increased anti-AChR antibody in serum 13 although they respond to therapy for autoimmune disorders. An antibody in these seronegative patients apparently interferes with neuromuscular transmission by binding to determinants other than those on the AChR. Mossman et al. 4 have suggested that this type of seronegative myasthenia is immunologically and physiologically distinct from the seropositive type and thus seronegative MG patients might show different responses to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs NMBDs from seropositive patients. However little is known about this possibility there is only a case report by Kim andMangold 5. We compared seropositive MG patients seronegative MG patients and non-MG patients with thymoma in terms of neuromuscular responses to vecuronium at the adductor pollicis muscle. Methods end. After receiving approval of the study protocol from the institutional ethics committee and obtaining patients informed consent we studied consecutive seropositive MG patients seronegative MG patients and non-MG thymoma patients n 8 each. Five of these patients have already been described 6.
Infants born to seronegative and seropositive mothers with MG may have transient neonatal MG 21. Plasma exchange and immunosuppressive therapy such as the administration of prednisolone and azathioprine result in clinical improvement 242223. Mice injected with plasmaimmunoglobulin fractions from seronegative MG patients showed a defect in neuromuscular transmission characterized by increased sensitivity to d-tubocurarine 4. Moreover some seronegative patients have shown prejunctional changes suggesting that seronegative MG may be a heterogenous disorder 1. Mossman et al. 4 suggested that seronegative myasthenia was immunologically and physiologically distinct from the seropositive type. The target of antibodies relating to seronegative MG is thought to be a constituent of the neuromuscular junction other than the AChR. Despite reported immunologic and physiologic differences between seronegative and seropositive MG the pharmacodynamics of vecuronium were not clearly different between the two disease types in this study.Some investigators have reported differing severity of MG between seropositive and seronegative patients 13. Oh 3 showed a tendency toward more marked impairment in seropositive patients than in seronegative patients but this difference was notTable 2.
Inhaled anesthetics decrease the availability of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction 24 and increase the neuromuscular blockade produced by nondepolarizing NMBDs 2527 although this pattern has not yet been confirmed in MG patients the possibility was demonstrated in a case report 28. Taivainen and Meretoja 25 showed that the ED50 and ED95 for vecuronium in the presence of 1 minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration of sevoflurane were 64% and 50% less respectively than values obtained without inhaled anesthetics in neurologically healthy patients. Blockade in MG patients in this study may have been influenced by sevoflurane. We do not believe that background anesthetics affected the result of the study which compared the two types of MG with respect to the sensitivity of vecuronium although it makes potency comparisons with other studies unnecessarily difficult. In addition during the test period the lungs were ventilated by mask and the end-tidal concentration of sevoflurane was not measured. An unstable concentration of sevoflurane might influence the blockade by vecuronium. Two non-MG patients showed a very steep dose-response reaction with 40 g/kg despite no reaction with 30 g/ kg.
Treatment improved ocular symptoms with the mean reduction in ocular-QMG score of 2.3  1.8 points. However 47 patients 38% failed to gain minimal manifestation or a better status. Patients with unfavorable outcomes also self-reported severe QOL impairment. Multivariate analyses showed that the pretreatment ocular-QMG score was associated with unfavorable outcomes but not associated with the patients QOL. Conclusion A treatment strategy designed in accord with a patients ocular presentation must be considered in order to improve ocular symptoms and the patients QOL. Background Since there has been no conclusive evidence regarding the treatment of ocular myasthenia treatment guidelines were recently issued by the European Federation of Neurological Societies/European Neurological Society EFNS/ENS. However the therapeutic outcomes concerning the quality-of-life QOL of patients with ocular myasthenia are not yet fully understood.Methods We investigated the therapeutic outcomes of patients with purely ocular myasthenia in a multicenter cross-sectional survey in Japan. To evaluate the severity of ocular symptoms we used the ocular-quantitative MG QMG score advocated by Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America.
During the entire clinical course 81 patients experienced both ptosis and diplopia 36 had ptosis alone and six had diplopia alone. Acetyl-cholinesterase inhibitors and prednisolone were used in 98 and 52 patients respectively. Treatment improved ocular symptoms with the mean reduction in ocular-QMG score of 2.3  1.8 points. However 47 patients 38% failed to gain minimal manifestation or a better status. Patients with unfavorable outcomes also self-reported severe QOL impairment. Multivariate analyses showed that the pretreatment ocular-QMG score was associated with unfavorable outcomes but not associated with the patients QOL.Conclusion A treatment strategy designed in accord with a patients ocular presentation must be considered in order to improve ocular symptoms and the patients QOL.Keywords Ocular myasthenia Ocular-quantitative myasthenia gravis score Quality-of-life Therapeutic outcome. Background. Ocular myasthenia is a form of myasthenia gravis MG that is clinically restricted to extrinsic ocular muscles 12. Clinical signs of ocular myasthenia can be highly variable ranging from mild unilateral ptosis to complete opthalmoplegia. Ptosis and diplopia may be present involving various combinations of the levator palpebrae the two obliques and the four recti muscles.
ovided the or Dedication waiver http//creativecommons.or unless otherwise stated.autoimmune attacks 13. Almost one-half of MG patients present with ocular symptoms and 50%60% progress to the generalized disease mostly within the first 2 years 45. The percentage of patients with MG who suffer from purely ocular symptoms during the entire course has been reported to be 12%20% of the whole MG population 1245. Several studies reported that corticosteroid was effective for preventing the progression from ocular myasthenia to generalized MG 6-11. However a systematic review concluded that there was no clear evidence supporting corticosteroid use for ocular myasthenia 12. In addition to generalization from ocular myasthenia the treatment of ocular symptoms in purely ocular myasthenia has varied since neurologists had to select treatment regimensLtd. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative ommons.org/licenses/by/4.0 which permits unrestricted use distribution and iginal work is properly credited. The Creative Commons Public Domain g/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ applies to the data made available in this articlebased on the particular ocular symptoms of their patients.
This is the first report of an association between MG and camptocormia. Clinicians should be aware that camptocormia is a potentially treatable condition in patients with MG. In patients presenting with camptocormia it is important to look for clinical and laboratory evidence of muscle involvement other than that in the spine as such findings may facilitate a correct diagnosis. Hiroshi Kataoka Takao Kiriyama Satoshi Ueno. Department of Neurology Nara Medical University Kashihara Nara JapanCorrespondence to Dr Kataoka Department of Neurology Nara Medical University 840 Shijo-cho Kashihara Nara 634-8522 Japan hk55naramed-u.ac.jpCompeting interests None.Patient consent Obtained.Contributors HK was responsible for the overall study design and wrote the manuscript. HK and TK contributed to the analysis and interpretation of data. HK and SU contributed to drafting and critical revision of a part of the submitted materials.Provenance and peer review Not commissioned externally peer reviewed.Received 15 April 2011 Revised 31 August 2011 Accepted 2 September 2011 Published Online First 20 September 2011J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 201283469e470. doi10.1136/jnnp-2011-300311. Sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis.
The authors suggest that more evidence is required to examine the use of sugammadex in patients with myasthenia gravis.We would like to report our experience with two patients with mild generalised muscle weakness class IIa in myasthenia gravis severity classification system by Osserman and Jenkins 2 and on chronic cholinesterase inhibitor medication in which we reversed an intense rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block with sugammadex. Both patients were scheduled for short procedures and subsequently gave consent for publication.After inducing neuromuscular block with rocuronium 0.15 mg.kg1 which is 25% of the standard dose required for tracheal intubation in normal patients both patients developed an intense neuromuscular block 3. At the end of the surgical procedure monitoring of the neuromuscular function TOF-Watch SX MSD  Shering-Plough Ireland Ltd Dublin Ireland showed no response of the train-of-four and a post-tetanic count was 0. We then reversed the block with 4.0 mg.kg1 sugammadex. The time from the administration of sugammadex to 90% recovery of the train-of-four ratio was 162 s for the first patient and 135 s for the second. No adverse changes were observed in arterial blood pressure heart rate or ECG after the administration of sugammadex.
If left untreated the mortality rate can be as high as 30%. Effective immunosuppression is the cornerstone of treatment of MG although most currently available immunomodulatory drugs are associated with unacceptable side effects delayed onset of therapeutic action or both. Mycophenolate mofetil MMF might be better tolerated than other immunosuppressants and many case reports and uncontrolled trials have indicated that it is effective in MG. However two recently concluded clinical trials failed to demonstrate the efficacy of MMF in MG. This paper critically reviews the existing evidence on the efficacy of MMF in MG and provides the authors view of its role in current practice.Keywords CellCept  myasthenia gravis  mycophenolate mofetil  progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathyExpert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 9142545-25511. IntroductionMyasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune condition in which antibodies against the postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors AChR or related structures result in failure of neuromuscular transmission. It has an estimated prevalence of 5  15 per 100000 1 and a bimodal distribution primarily affecting young females between 15 and 30 years of age and older males between 60 and 75 years of age 2 .
None of the ten confirmed cases was on MMF and steroids alone. Seven of the 17 patients who developed PML died and five improved the outcome of the other five was not known at the time of the warning. Based on this information the FDA has advised that only physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and the management of renal cardiac or hepatic transplant patients should use MMF and that patients who receive MMF should be managed in facilities equipped and staffed with adequate laboratory and supportive medical resources. Physicians responsible for maintenance therapy should have complete information requisite for the follow-up of the patient. 4 end. Mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis clinical effi cacy. A beneficial effect of MMF in MG was first reported in a 28-year-old female who had had severe and intractable MG for 14 years with frequent hospitalizations for acute exacerbations 15 . Improvement was observed within days of beginning MMF which led to discontinuation of pyridostigmine and reduction in prednisone dose. The improvement was sustained for at least 15 months and minimal side effects were observed during this period.Subsequently several other case reports reported effectiveness of MMF in MG 16-19 .
Based on data from organ-transplantation studies the MMF dose was 1 g twice a day in most studies in MG. Benefits included improvement in muscle strength with reduction in AChR antibody titers 17 and reduction or discontinuation of concomitant therapy 16-19 . Importantly some authors recorded clinical improvement as early as 3 weeks after MMF was begun 17 . Apart from dose-dependent hemolytic anemia in one patient 17  no serious side effects were reported in these studies.In an open-label pilot study of patients with refractory or steroid-dependent MG 8 of 12 patients 67% treated with MMF for 6 months showed improvement within the first 2 months of treatment 20 .In a retrospective review of 32 patients with MG MMF 1 g was given twice daily for 3  36 months mean 11 months as an adjunct or steroid sparing agent 29 patients or as sole therapy 3 patien. ts 21  end. Overall 69% showed either improvement in functional status 59% reduction in steroid dose 50% or both. The earliest clinical response was recorded at 2 months but the mean time to improvement was 4.8 months with some patients not showing any benefit until 12 months into the treatment. Interestingly patients with shorter disease duration mean 7.5 years versus 14 years showed a more favorable response to MMF.
Although patients taking MMF demonstrated some improvement in QMG and MMT scores only the improvement in jitter reached statistical significance. Three patients in the MMT group became seronegative and all showed improved jitter compared to only one patient in the placebo group. The medication was well tolerated with minimal side effects.Recently two multicenter prospective randomized doubleblind placebo-controlled trials evaluated the efficacy safety and tolerability of MMF as an adjunct to steroids  Table 1 . The first trial was conducted in 13 US centers and includedE xper t Opi n.P harm acot her. Dow nloa ded from info rmah ealth care .com by Tuf tsU nive rsity on 11/0 5/ 14 Fo r pe rs on al u se o nl y.2548 Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 91480 subjects with mild-to-moderate MG who had not previously received any immunosuppressive agents except corticosteroids 24 . Subjects were randomized either to placebo or MMF plus 20 mg/day of prednisone for a 12-week blinded phase which was followed by an optional openlabel 24-week phase. The primary end point was change in the QMG score at week 12 compared to baseline.
Finally the duration of both trials might have been too short to show the progressive responses to MMF that have been reported in previous studies to occur as late as 40 weeks after initiating MMF 19 . 5 end. Conclusion. Prior to the recent trials MMF was finding increasing off-label use in MG both as first-line therapy or as a steroid-sparing agent and for patients who did not tolerate or respond to other immunosuppressants. Case reports retrospective reviews and small or uncontrolled trials had indicated equivalent or superior efficacy to other nonsteroidal agents used for MG with fewer side effects and rapid onset of action. The high cost of MMF was prohibitive for many patients and limited its use. It was thus hoped that these controlled trials would provide evidence of efficacy that would lead to regulatory approval of MG as an indication for MMF. Although the results of these trials do not support earlier reports and the clinical experience of many physicians that MMF is an effective steroid-sparing immunosuppressant in MG many lessons were learned in the process and these will undoubtedly form the foundation for future clinical studies. 6 end. Expert opinion.
Neurological examination revealed diplopia and right lid-ptosis. Study funding. end. Authorship contribution statement. end. Conflict of interest. Dr Tsivgoulis reports no disclosures. Dr Dervenoulas reports no disclosures. Dr Kokotis reports no disclosures. Dr J end. Tzartos reports no disclosures. Dr S end. Tzartos reports involvement with the diagnostic center TzartosNeurodiagnostics. Dr Voumvourakis reports no disclosures. Acknowledgments. None. end. A girl born in May 1977 started to have ptosis of the right eye at the age of 15 years. Clinical examination and tests confirmed ocular myasthenia gravis without thymoma and she was treated with anticholinesterase compounds. At the age of 3-5 years ptosis and diplopia worsened and prednisolone 20 mg was given on alternate days along with pyridostigmine bromide 90 mg/day and distigmine bromide 5 mg/day. The ocular symptoms were inversely correlated with the doses of prednisolone and she alternated between transient relief and aggravation of her symptoms. Treatment with anticholinesterase compounds was unsatisfactory. At the age of 5 years ptosis and diplopia worsened during reduction of prednisolone dose figure A.
The daily dose of anticholinesterase compounds and prednisolone was kept constant before and during initial immunoglobulin treatment. Improvement of the ocular symptoms began on day 4 after the start of immunoglobulin treatment and all the symptoms disappeared within 14 days. The treatment was followed by a booster infusion given every two weeks plus oral administration of prednisolone and pyridostigmine. The dose of oral prednisolone was gradually reduced to 10 mg on alternate days. However ocular symptoms recurred seven months after the start of treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin. The booster infusion of intravenous immunoglobulin was repeated five times every two or three days. An improvement of the symptoms was not remarkable and intravenous immunoglobulin treatment was discontinued in February 1987. Doses of prednisolone and pyridostigmine were increased but ocular symptoms did not improve.In July 1987 she was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone because she had been treated with oral prednisolone for a long period and oral prednisolone 55 mg on alternate days did not lead to a satisfactory improvement. The improvement of the ocular symptoms was not remarkable after the initial intravenous methylprednisolone and a second course was administered.
Metropolitan Neurological Hospital Tokyo Japan 5 Department of Neurology National Nagoya Hospital Nagoya Japan Accepted 3 July 2003 It is widely accepted that myasthenia gravis MG a T-celldependent chronic autoimmune disorder is induced by sustained production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junction.2 MG is characterized by weakness and fatigability of skeletal bulbar and extraocular muscles. During the past 30 years treatment of MG has advanced significantly and prognosis has greatly improved with dramatically decreased mortality. Experienced clinicians have recommended early9 thymectomy in nonthymomatous autoimmune MG although its indication remains controversial because of unsatisfactory controlled studies5. Although long-term corticosteroid treatment markedly improves the condition of some 80% of MG patients10 the problem of steroid resistance and side effects have still to be resolved.
FK506 prevents the induction of MG in rats immunized with AChR peptide through a decrease in antigen-specific T-cell response14 suggesting a potential role for FK506 in the treatment of MG. We examined the efficacy and safety of FK506 in 19 patients with generalized MG in an open-label study. MATERIALS AND METHODS Our study was carried out at 10 hospitals in Japan between May 1997 and March 1999 in accordance Listed at the end of this article. Abbreviations AChR acetylcholine receptor ADL activities of daily living ELISA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay HbA1C hemoglobin A1C IL-2 interleukin 2 MG myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 28 570-574 2003. CLINICAL STUDY OF FK506 IN PATIENTS WITH MYASTHENIA GRAVIS. end. TETSURO KONISHI MD1 YASUMASA YOSHIYAMA MD2 MASAHARU TAKAMORI MD3 KOICHI YAGI MD4 EIICHIRO MUKAI MD5 TAKAHIKO SAIDA MD1.
We examined the efficacy and safety of FK506 in 19 patients with generalized MG in an open-label study. MATERIALS AND METHODS. Our study was carried out at 10 hospitals in Japan between May 1997 and March 1999 in accordanceListed at the end of this article. Abbreviations AChR acetylcholine receptor ADL activities of daily living ELISA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay HbA1C hemoglobin A1C IL-2 interleukin 2 MG myasthenia gravis Key words clinical study FK506 immunosuppressive therapy myasthenia gravis tacrolimus Correspondence to T. Konishi e-mail konishiunh.hosp.go.jp 2003 Wiley Periodicals Inc.570 Efficacy of FK506 in MG MUSCLE  NERVE November 2003with the Declaration of Helsinki and the Good Clinical Practice guidelines. The study protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of each study center and written informed consent was obtained from all patients prior to entry. At entry all patients but one No. 19 who suffered from steroidinduced cataract after medication for 5 years in the past were receiving steroid therapy at an activities of daily living ADL score of 2 or more and required additional immunosuppression to heighten clinical improvement or reduce steroid side-effects such as hyperlipidemia glaucoma cataract and osteoporosis.
The dosage was increased to as high as 5 mg/day at the investigators discretion.Clinical observation and laboratory tests including anti-AChR antibody titers and FK506 concentrations in blood were performed at entry and 2 4 8 12 and 16 weeks after the initiation of FK506 treatment. The patients were also clinically observed 4 weeks before entry. Interleukin 2 IL-2 production in the peripheral blood was assayed before and 4 and 16 weeks after the initiation of treatment.Muscle strength was evaluated using a modified Besinger and Toyka MG score1 in order to assess symptoms of generalized MG. ADL score was assessed with a 7-step rating scale grade 0 no symptoms grade 1 presence of symptoms but no difficulty in carrying out daily activities office work or attending school grade 2 office work or school activities cannot be fully performed including limitations caused by ocular symptoms grade 3 office work school activities or outings are almost impossible and disorders of phonation or swallowing are sometimes encountered grade 4 barely able to move around in a room or take care of ones. elf and any disorder of phonation or swallowing is usually severe grade 5 bedridden or confined to a chair and grade 6 requiring regular or occasional ventilatory assistance.
Sixteen patients completed the study and three failed to do so. Reasons for withdrawal were an aggravation of symptoms of MG myasthenic crisis in patient 7 at week 2 and patient 9 in week 13 one patient No. 19 made her own decision to withdraw at week 13. Three patients Nos. 1 10 and 11 had their steroid dosage reduced 21 9 and 40% reduction respectively during the study and one No. 6 had the dosage increased 33%. FK506 dosage was started at 3 mg/day for all patients 5 patients Nos. 3 4 7 9 and 18 were later given doses of up to 5 mg/day. The blood level of FK506 was less than 10 ng/ml in all but one in whom it was 12 ng/ml.At the end of this trial total MG score was decreased for 13 of 19 patients Table 1. Among these an improvement of three points or more was observed in seven patients Nos. 1 2 5 8 13 16 and 17. Table 1 shows that all patients had been impaired in performance of ADL grade 2 3 or 4. At the end of this trial ADL scores were also improved by one point or more in eight patients Nos. 1 2 3 5 8 13 14 and 17. Nine of 19 patients 47% showed an improvement in either MG or ADL scores.The median value of total MG score was significantly decreased at 8 12 and 16 weeks after FK506 treatment initiation Fig. 1 end.
Ann Neurol 1983145169.5 Oosterhuis H. The natural course of myasthenia gravis a long termfollow up study. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 19895211217.6 Kaminski H Daroff R. Treatment of ocular myasthenia. Steroids onlywhen compelled. Arch Neurol 2000577523.7 Kupersmith MJ Moster M Bhuiyan S Warren F Weinberg H. Ben-eficial effects of corticosteroids on ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 1996538024. 8 Sommer N Sigg B Melms A Weller M Schepelmann K Herzau Vet al. Ocular myasthenia gravis response to long term immunosuppressive treatment. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 19976215662. 9 Monsul NT Patwa HS Knorr AM Lesser RL Goldstein JM. Theeffect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci 20042171313. 10 Kupersmith MJ Latkany R. Development of generalized disease attwo years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol 2003602438. 11 Sambrook P Birmingham J Kempler S et al. Corticosteroid effectson proximal femur bone loss. J Bone Miner Res 1990512116.12 Nakumura H Taniguchi Y Suzuki Y et al. Delayed remission afterthymectomy for myasthenia gravis of the purely ocular type. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 19961123715. 13 Askanas V Cave V Martinuzzi A Engel W.
The Article Processing Charge was funded by the authors. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal. Copyright  2017 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 1 Published Ahead of Print on November 3 2017 as 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004676. Carolina Barnett MD PhD Vera Bril MD FRCP Moira Kapral MD Abhaya V. Kulkarni MDPhD Aileen M. Davis PhDCorrespondence to Dr. Barnett c.barnetttapiautoronto.caSupplemental data at Neurology.orgObjective To study responsiveness and meaningful change of the Myasthenia Gravis Impairment Index MGII and its relative efficiency compared to other measures.Methods We enrolled 95 patients receiving prednisone IV immunoglobulin IVIg or plasma exchange PLEX and 54 controls. Patients were assessed with the MGII and other measures including the Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score Myasthenia Gravis Composite and Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Livingat baseline and 34 weeks after treatment.
Patient-meaningful change was assessed with an anchor-based method using the patients impression of change. We determined the minimal detectable change MDC and the minimal important difference MID at the group and individual level.Results Treated patients had a higher change in MGII scores than controls analysis of covariance p  0.001. The ocular domain changed more with prednisone than with IVIg/PLEX effect size 0.67 and 0.13 analysis of covariance p 5 0.001. The generalized domain changed more with IVIg/PLEX than with prednisone effect size 0.50 and 0.22 analysis of covariance p5 0.07. For the total MGII score the individual MDC95 was 9.1 and the MID was 5.5 for individuals and 8.1 for groups. Relative efficiency ratios were .1 favoring the MGII.Conclusions The MGII demonstrated responsiveness to prednisone IVIg and PLEX in patients with myasthenia. There is a differential response in ocular and generalized symptoms to type of therapy. The MGII has higher relative efficiency than comparison measures and is viable for use in clinical trials. Neurology 20178918. GLOSSARY end.
The Article Processing Charge was funded by the authors. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 CC BY-NC-ND which permits downloading and sharing the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal.Copyright  2017 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 1Different methods to determine responsiveness reflect different views of what relevant means.34 Statistical measures of responsiveness such as t testsmay detect differences that are not meaningful for patients. The minimal detectable change MDC is the smallest change that is significantly beyond error of measurement.35 Therefore the MDC is useful to understand if a change in score is likely true changemore than error or not just errorbut does not provide the patients perspective. The minimal important difference MID is the smallest change that patients consider meaningful5 and it should be larger than the MDC to be interpretable. Different methods to estimate the MID have been proposed.
Demographic data were evaluated with means 6 SD or counts and proportions. There are no formal methods to calculate sample size for responsiveness studies but guidelines recommend a minimum of 50 patients.8 We aimed to enroll 50 patients per treatment group prednisone and IVIg/PLEX to ensure a broad range of treatment response. We used R statistical software v.3.1.2 and considered p values 0.05 as significant.Statistically significant change. Between-groups responsiveness. We compared the mean change inMGII scores between treated patients and controls expecting higher change in treated patients unpaired t test because of differences in baseline scores among treatment groups we used analysis of covariance ANCOVA to compare the 3 groups prednisone IVIg/PLEX and controls. We combined IVIg and PLEX in one group as they have similar efficacy.615 We also calculated between-groups ES816 for the total ocular and generalized scores.We studied the subgroup of patients with pure ocular disease comparing the mean change in scores in treated vs untreated patients unpaired t test. We expected significant change in the total and ocular scores but not in the generalized score.Within-group responsiveness.
MID individual Based on the receiver operator characteristic curves where responders were those a little better and higher n 5 58. a The receiver operator characteristic curve for ocular score had area under the curve 0.7 and thus was not reliable.6 Neurology 89 December 5 2017size estimations are feasible for future intervention studies. In addition the MGII subscores are responsive and the ocular component can be used for clinical trials in pure ocular disease. The ocular and generalized scores may have differential responsiveness according to the intervention and this should be studied with other treatments. The MDC and MID differ for groups and individuals and cutpoints for improvement should be chosen based on the clinical scenario. These findings support the use of the MGII to detect change in patients receiving interventions for MG. AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS. Carolina Barnett participated in the design of the study data collection and analysis and writing the manuscript. Vera Bril participated in the design of the study data collection and review of the data and manuscript. Moira Kapral participated in the design of the study and review of the data and manuscript. Abhaya Kulkarni participated in the design of the study and review of the data and manuscript.
Masafumi Fujimoto Shuhei Terasaki Masaaki Nishi and Tatsuo YamamotoBACKGROUND Several previous studies using univariate analysis have suggested that the pre-anaesthetic train-of-four TOF ratio concentration of anti-acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies and the presence of preoperativegeneralised muscular involvement are determinants of an increased response to neuromuscular blocking agents NMBAs in patients with myasthenia gravis. However the determinants of the response of patients with myasthenia gravis to rocuronium which is expected to be used more frequently since the advent of sugammadex have not been studied.OBJECTIVES To clarify whether previously suggested determinants of the response to other intermediate-acting NMBAs would also affect the response to rocuronium and to reveal the determinants of the increased response to rocuronium in individual patients with myasthenia gravis using multivariate analysis.DESIGN . Case control study.SETTING Kumamoto University Hospital November 2010 to September 2013.PATIENTS Thirty-eight patients with myasthenia gravis having surgery using a total intravenous anaesthetic technique were investigated. After induction of general anaesthesia the 95% effective dose ED95 of rocuronium was calculated using cumulative dose-finding methods.
Unm the Department of Anesthesiology Graduate School of Medical Sciences Kumrrespondence to Masafumi Fujimoto MD Department of Anesthesiology Gradua mamoto-City Kumamoto 860-8556 Japan l 81 96 373 5275 fax 81 96 363 9697 e-mail mfujimoto-kmmumin.ac.jp65-0215 Copyright 2015 European Society of Anaesthesiology. All rights reserwas monitored by acceleromyographic assessment of TOF responses of the adductor pollicis muscle to ulnar nerve stimulation. Patients were then divided into the increased response ED95 <0.15 mg kg1 n13 and non-increased response groups ED95 0.15 mg kg 1 n25.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Demographic data TOF ratio before rocuronium injection baseline TOF ratio concentration of anti-AChR antibodies Osserman classification and treatment for myasthenia gravis in the two groups were compared.RESULTS Stepwise logistic regression identified baseline TOF ratio and age of onset of myasthenia gravis as determinants of the increased res.
We also aimed to investigate the variability in the response of patients with myasthenia gravis to rocuronium and to establish the determinants of any increased response to rocuronium using multivariate analysis. Methods end. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Kumamoto University Hospital Kumamoto University Hospital Kumamoto-City Kumamoto Japan protocol number 1123 Chairman Motohiro Takeya on 14 June 2010. This study was conducted according to the recommendations of the Helsinki Declaration. Prior written informed consent was obtained from all patients.Patients with myasthenia gravis scheduled for elective surgery under general anaesthesia were investigated regardless of whether they received oral medications for myasthenia gravis treatment or not. Patients with cirrhosis hepatitis cholestasis heart failure or arrhythmia renal dysfunction defined by a creatinine clearance of 30 ml min 1 or morbid obesity BMI 35 kg m 2 were excluded from the study. Patients receiving medications known to interfere with NMBAs such as antibiotics and anticonvulsants were also excluded. The patients were divided into five groups according to the Osserman classification8 based on their symptoms one day before surgery.
Oral medications for myasthenia gravis treatment were given on the morning of surgery to all patients who were taking them. At the end of surgery the fourth TOF response T4 had already reappeared in all patients. The actual TOF ratio was 0.85 0.24 80.7 21.9% of the baseline value. In our hospital all patients receive sugammadex 200 mg >2.0 mg kg 1 for the reversal of moderate neuromuscular blockade. Therefore all patients in our study received this dose of sugammadex and tracheal extubation was attempted in the OR after reaching a TOF ratio more than 90% of the baseline value Table 4.In 12 of the 13 increased response patients the TOF ratio at the end of surgery was less than 90% of the baseline value. In 10 of these 12 patients the TOF ratio rapidly increased to more than 90% of the baseline value after sugammadex injection dose range 2.0 to 3.9 mg kg 1. One of the remaining two patients received an additional 200 mg dose of sugammadex total 6.5 mg kg 1 which resulted in her TOF ratio still only increasing to 69% of the baseline value.
Serum levels of 25OHD anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies and complement factor C5a were measured in MG patients n  66 and healthy volunteers HV n  25. Participants were evaluated through questionnaires to determine vitD intake and sunlight exposure. Severity scores were registered for MG patients. We found an 89.4% of MG individuals with nonsufficient levels of vitD in comparison with 68.0% in the group of HV OR  3.96 P  0.024. In addition there was an inverse correlation between 25OHD levels and one of the scores P  0.037 r  0.26 CI95  0.49 to 0.0087. However when we compared 25OHD median serum levels between MG patients and HV no statistically significant differences have been found. This is the first report of vitD status in a cohort of Argentinean MG patients where we found that patients are more likely to have nonsufficient levels of vitD compared to healthy people and that patients with more severe disease have lower levels of vitD. There are limited and controversial studies that address the role of vitamin D vitD a vitamin with immunomodulatory effects in myasthenia gravis MG a neuromuscular autoimmune disease. We aimed to assess 25-hydroxy vitamin D 25 OHD levels and to evaluate possible associations with the clinical severity and other biomarkers of the disease.
Participants were evaluated through questionnaires to determine vitD intake and sunlight exposure. Severity scores were registered for MG patients. We found an 89.4% of MG individuals with nonsufficient levels of vitD in comparison with 68.0% in the group of HV OR  3.96 P  0.024. In addition there was an inverse correlation between 25OHD levels and one of the scores P  0.037 r  0.26 CI95  0.49 to 0.0087. However when we compared 25OHD median serum levels between MG patients and HV no statistically significant differences have been found. This is the first report of vitD status in a cohort of Argentinean MG patients where we found that patients are more likely to have nonsufficient levels of vitD compared to healthy people and that patients with more severe disease have lower levels of vitD. INTRODUCTION. Myasthenia gravis MG is a prototypic antibody-mediated autoimmune disease that affects the neuromuscular junction NMJ. These autoantibodies target different components of the NMJ where the most relevant are those directed against the acetylcholine receptor AChR present in 80% of the cases 12. The remaining 20% of the patients have anti-MuSK LRP4 or agrin antibodies 3.
MATERIALS AND METHODS. Subjects end. Sixty-six patients with diagnosed MG from the Section of Neuroimmunology and Electrophysiology of Jos e Mar a Ramos Mej a Hospital were included in the study and twenty-five age- and sexmatched healthy volunteers HV were included as a control group.A confirmed diagnosis of MG was determined by fulfillment of one of the following criteria 1 seropositivity anti-acetylcholine receptors or antimuscle specific kinase 2 significant decrease >10% in low-frequency repetitive nerve stimulation or increas. ed jitter with single fiber electromyography 3 positive response to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.Samples were obtained from April 2017 to March 2019. All of them were equally distributed throughout the year. MG patients and HV were evaluated through questionnaires based on the OPTIFORD project 25 to determine vitD daily intake and sunlight exposure. Individuals taking vitD supplementation were excluded from the study as well as patients with other associated active autoimmune or infectious diseases pregnant women and patients who received treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin or plasma exchange within 4 weeks before the consultation.
Previous studies reported deficient vitD levels <20 ng mL 1 in 26.8% of adult women living in Buenos Aires 29 and 64% of elderly subjects from the mid-region 3334S 30. The incidence was even higher in institutionalized adults and subjects with the absence of sun exposure or physical activity.In this study to exclude the potential effect of some lifestyle changes in patients with a chronic disease that would expose them to a higher risk of vitD deficiency we evaluated patients and controls with questionnaires to determine vitD daily intake and sunlight exposure showing no differences between groups.In the Argentinian population included in this study we could d. emonstrate a weak association between vitD levels and the severity of the disease according to ADL score where we found an inverse correlation between both parameters. Namely patients with more severe disease higher ADL score had lower vitD25OHDHV MG<30 ng mL 1 17 59 >30 ng mL 1 8 7P < 0.05 considered statistically significant.levels. Consistently with other reports 1921 we also observed a higher proportion of MG patients having nonsufficient levels of vitD compared to the control group with a high likelihood for this association.
STATEMENT OF ETHICS. This study was performed in line with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Approval was granted by the Bioethics Committee of the Dr. Jos e Mar a Ramos Mej a Hospital. Written informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study. CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT. The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare that are relevant to the content of this article. Eyelid ptosis enhanced after steroid pulse therapy in ocular myasthenia gravis a case report. Eyelid ptosis is a frequent symptom in myasthenia gravis and severity of ptosis fluctuates along with the disease course 1. Here we describe a patient with ocular myasthenia gravis presenting with ptosis in the contralateral side to primary affected side after edrophonium Tensilon test and steroid pulse therapy. A 39-year-old Japanese woman presented with a 3-month history of diplopia and right eyelid ptosis Fig. 1a end. Her symptoms had diurnal variation worsened in the evening and improved after rest. There were no symptoms or signs of weakness of facial neck bulbar limb or respiratory muscles. The edrophonium test disclosed improvement of the right ptosis and induced minor left ptosis Fig. 1b end.
OUTCOME MEASURES. Efficacy was measured in terms of clinical state muscle strength and serum anti-AChR antibody levels. Other outcomes included duration of successful treatment with tacrolimus and degree of prednisone dose reduction. Adverse events were monitored. RESULTS end. Of the 79 patients who completed the study 96% were treated successfully with tacrolimus for more than 1 year n  76 this figure decreased to 95% n  75 at 2 years and 92% n  73 after 3 years. A significant increase in muscle strength was observed P <0.0001 and a mean increase of 39% was recorded at the close of the study. At the final followup visit there was a significant decrease in the mean concentration of serum anti-AChR antibodies P <0.0001. In addition 88.6% of patients demonstrated pharmacological remission 6.4% had minimal symptoms and 5.1% were in complete stable remission. Prednisone doses were reduced and ultimately withdrawn in 98% of patients and the proportion of patients with adverse effects related to ciclosporin and prednisone decreased from a baseline value of 96.2% to 35.4% at the final follow-up visit P <0.001. CONCLUSION. Tacrolimus is an effective long-term immunosuppressive medication for myasthenia gravis. It is well tolerated and produces no adverse effects. GLOSSARY end. end.
The Effect of Combined Therapy with Immunoadsorption and High-Dose Intravenous Methylprednisolone on Myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disease mediated by antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor of skeletal muscle antiAChR Ab 1 2. Although the efficacy of plasmapheresis on MG had been reported only in a relatively small-scale controlled study for severe cases of MG 3 a significant reduction in serum anti-AChR Ab titer following plasmapheresis has been considered to be related to the efficacy of treatment 49. However the effect of plasmapheresis on clinical symptoms of MG did not continue and the serum anti-AChR Ab titer increased relatively soon within 1 month after treatment 4 7. In other reports addition of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy HMP immediately after plasmapheresis might have prevented the early phase deterioration in case studies with MG 10 11. Recently particularly in Japan the immunoadsorption method IA has been the preferred treatment for MG because of a lower rate of serum albumin loss and side effects to the circulating system and because the effect is almost identical to plasma exchange or the double-filtration method 12.
The mean anti-AChR Ab ratio was significantly lower in the IA  HMP than IA alone groups at 1 month p  0.01 after each treatment table 2. Both the severity and antiAChR Ab ratios increased within 1 month after IA alone which was consistent with a previous report 4. These findings suggest that IA  HMP produce more immediate effects on MG for up to 1 month compared with IA alone. The mean PSL dose ratio did not differ between the IA  HMP and IA alone groups at least within 1 month table 2.After the total observation period both the severity and antiAChR Ab ratios were significantly lower in patients receiving IA  HMP than in patients receiving IA alone 0.29 B 0.31 vs. 0.72 B 0.32 and 0.38 B 0.27 vs. 0.70 B 0.23 respectively p  0.01 table 2. Although the total observation period was longer for the patients receiving IA  HMP than IA alone table 2 no significant correlation was observed with severity r  0.20 p  0.48 anti-AChR Ab r  0.22 p  0.42 and PSL dose ratios r  0.09 p  0.77. These results indicate that IA  HMP for a longer interval mean 151 days is more effective than IA alone for a shorter interval mean 29 days.
In contrast 4 of the present patients receiving IA  HMP demonstrated remission no symptom with no medication for more than 1 year. Therefore combined therapy with IA  HMP appears more effective than IA alone or in all likelihood HMP alone. Furthermore the PSL dose ratio was significantly lower in patients receiving IA  HMP than in patients receiving IA alone 0.58 B 0.29 vs. 1.03 B 0.61 p  0.01 after the total observation period table 2 suggesting that IA  HMP treatment may allow for a reduced dose of oral PSL per day for normal life in MG patients. As the combined therapy with IA  HMP exhibits no serious complications it can be used not only to overcome acute deterioration as plasma exchange but also to reduce the dose of oral PSL and aim at remission. The anti-AChR Ab ratio together with clinical severity can be an indicator for the therapeutic response to IA or IA  HMP for individual patients.In conclusion the combined therapy with IA and HMP appears to be more effective for the treatment of MG compared with IA alone although further studies are needed to compare the effect of IA  HMP and HMP alone. Acknowledgments. This study was supported in part by the Ministry of EducationCulture Sports Science and Technology Japan.
ational large randomized controlled trial of MMFor of any other immunosuppressive drughas been performed in MG.2021Here we report the results of a phase III trial designed to study the efficacy and safety of MMF as a steroid-sparing adjunct in patients with mild-to-moderate generalized AChR antibody-positive MG. We also discuss methodologic and practical issues arising from one of the largest ever therapeutic trials in MG and implications for future studies.METHODS This prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled parallel-group international multicenter 36-week trial assessed the efficacy and safety of adjunct MMF CellCept Roche Pharma AG Grenzach-Wyhlen Germany in improving disease control while reducing corticosteroid dose in patients with MG. The study ran from August 2004 to October 2006. Initially patients were recruited at 25 neurology centers in the United States Canada United Kingdom Germany and The Netherlands. In 2005 a further 18 centers in Ukraine Israel Spain India Italy France Russia Serbia and Montenegro and Mexico were added because of difficulties in recruiting. All patients gave written informed consent to participate in the study which was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and the principles of Good Clinical Practice.Patients.
In the follow-up phase therapy IA  HMP HMP alone oral PSL not exceeding a daily dose of 20 mg or pyridostigmine bromide 60 or 120 mg per day was administered as needed to maintain MM.The endpoint of the follow-up phase therapy was defi ned as 1 year after the beginning of treatment. Effi cacy of FK506 was evaluated by comparison of the number of treatments with IA  HMP or HMP alone during the follow-up phase and the dose of oral PSL per day required at the endpoint between the two groups of patients treated with or without FK506 see table 2 .The protocol for this study was approved by the ethics committee of our institute.Clinical Parameters Clinical classifi cation was performed according to MGFA 13  table 1 . Clinical severity was determined by patients and participating physicians Y.N. D.O. and R.K. not blinded to the treatment type according to MGFA quantitative MG score 13  table 13 . Each patient was assessed by the same physician throughout the course of the present study. The ratios posttreatment to pretreatment of clinical severity score were calculated.
At 1 year into the treatment the PSL dose required was signifi cantly lower for the patients treated with FK506 than for those treated without FK506 p  0.05 table 2 .Laboratory Parameters At 6 months and 1 year into the treatment PBM IL-2production and PBM IL-2 production ratio were more markedly decreased in the patients treated with FK506 than in those treated without FK506 p  0.05 table 3 .Although the mean AChR Ab ratio was signifi cantly decreased in the patients treated without FK506 at 1 . month 6 months and 1 year into the treatment  table 3  it was not decreased in the patients treated with FK506 up to 6 months into the treatment  table 3 . The mean AChR Ab ratio was signifi cantly lower in the patients treated without FK506 than in those treated with FK506 at 1 month p  0.05 table 3  but there was no difference between the two groups at 6 months or 1 year  table 3 .Side Effects FK506 was well tolerated over the 1-year treatmentperiod. The mean concentration of FK506 did not change throughout the study in the patients treated with FK506  table 3 . None of the patients exhibited signifi cant side effects up to 1 year into the treatment.
J Neuroimmunol 1998 87 136146. 6 Schreiber SL Crabtree GR The mechanism of action of cyclosporin A and FK506. Immunol Today 1992 13 136142.7 Kino T Hatanaka H Miyata S Inamura N Nishiyama M Yajima T Goto T Okuhara M Kohsaka M Aoki H Ochiai T FK506 a novel immunosuppressant isolated from a streptomyces. II end. Immunosuppressive effect of FK506 in vitro. J Antibiot Tokyo 1987 40 1256 1265. 8 European FK506 Multicentre Liver Study Group. Randomised trial comparing tacrolimus FK506 and cyclosporin in prevention of liver allograft rejection. Lancet 1997 344 423 428. 9 Evoli A Di Schino C Marsili F Punzi C Successful treatment of myasthenia gravis with tacrolimus. Muscle Nerve 2002 25 111114. 10 Konishi T Yoshiyama Y Takamori M Yagi K Mukai E Saida T the Japanese FK506 MG study group Clinical study of FK506 in patients with myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2003 28 570574. 11 Utsugisawa K Nagane Y Yonezawa H Obara D Kondoh R Tohgi H Effects of FK506 on myasthenia gravis patients with high interleukin-2 productivity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Muscle Nerve 2003 27 245248. 12 Cosi V Romani A Lombardi M Raiola E Bergamaschi R Piccolo G Citterio A Berzuini C Prognosis of myasthenia gravis A retrospective study of 380 patients. J Neurol 1997 244 548555.
ntre Hospital of Shanghai Shanghai China 6 Department of Pharmacy The Affiliated Wuxi Peoples Hospital of Nanjing Medical University Wuxi China Key Points A population pharmacokinetic model was built to describe the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus in adult Chinese patients with myasthenia gravis. The CYP3A53 genotype and co-administration of a Wuzhi capsule significantly affected tacrolimus clearance. A dosing regimen based on the CYP3A53 genotype and co-administration of a Wuzhi capsule in patients with myasthenia gravis was proposed. Vol.0123456789 Zheng Jiao zjiaofudan.edu.cn Jian-Ying Xi xijianyingfudan.edu.cn1 Department ofPharmacy Huashan Hospital Fudan University 12 Middle Urumqi Rd Shanghai200040 China2 School ofBasic Medicine andClinical Pharmacy China Pharmaceutical University Nanjing China3 Department ofPharmacy Shanghai Chest Hospital 241 West Huaihai Rd Shanghai200030 China4 Department ofNeurology Huashan Hospital Fudan University 12 Middle Urumqi Rd Shanghai200040 China5 Department ofNeurology Jingan District Cen.
This was performed using PsN ver.3.2.4. Third normalized prediction distribution errors NPDE were performed 2000 times to evaluate the simulation-baseddiagnostics of the final PopPK model using the NPDE R package version 2.15.0 https //www.npde.biost at.fr. Finally as the subjects were sampled at several dose levels in this study the prediction- and variability-corrected visual predictive check pvcVPC 25 was tested with 200 simulations for each observation to assess the predictive performance of the final model. Concentrationtime profiles were calculated for the median the 5th and the 95th percentiles in the distribution of the simulated data and were overlaid with the observed data. 2.7 ModelInformed Tacrolimus Dosing Regimen. Both tacrolimus and tacrolimus co-medication with Wuzhi capsule therapeutic regimens were simulated for CYP3A53 polymorphisms. Ten dosing regimens 1.5 2 3 4 and 5mg q12h 3 4 6 8 and 10mg q24h were simulated. Simulations were performed 1000 times based on the final established model. An optimal dosage regimen was proposed or developed with respect to the target tacrolimus C0 window of 4.815ng/mL 21 26. 3 Results. end. 3.1 Patient Characteristics.
Body weight BW was investigated together with the other covariates however in the forward inclusion process as theALT alanine aminotransferase AST aspartate transaminase -GT gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase TBiL total bilirubin TP total protein ALB albumin Hb hemoglobin HCT hematocrit RBC red blood cell SCr serum creatinineinclusion of BW caused a reduction of OFV of < 3.84 it was therefore not incorporated in the model.By including the Wuzhi capsule CYP3A53 and CYP3A41G genotypes the OFVs were sig. nificantly decreased by 54.46 68.34 and 45.37 respectively. Inclusion of CYP3A53 with CYP3A41G genotype together led to a significant drop in OFV 69.02. We also investigated the combination of CYP3A53 and CYP3A41G genotype as followsCYP3A53/3-CYP3A41/1G CYP3A53/3CYP3A41/1  CYP3A51/3-CYP3A41/1G CYP3A51/3-CYP3A4 1 /1  CYP3A51/1CYP3A41G/1G and CYP3A51/1-CYP3A41/1G. Incorporation of the 3A51/3-3A41/1 genotype showed the largest decrease in OFV by 67.96 among all genotype combinations. Univariate analysis showed that CYP3A53 had a greater effect than CYP3A41G and genotype combination. Therefore CYP3A53 polymorphisms had the dominant role and were included in the final model.
Moreover CYP3A51/3 and CYP3A51/1 showed a greater effect on dosing interval adjustment than CYP3A53/3. 4 Discussion. To the best of our knowledge this is the first prospective PopPK study of tacrolimus in patients with MG to investigate the effect of demographics pharmacogenetics andconcomitant medications on tacrolimus PopPK parameters. The effects of the CYP3A53 genotype and Wuzhi capsule on tacrolimus clearance were confirmed in the MG population as previously reported 28 29.In our study the estimated typical CL/F value of the population was 17.1L/h which was lower than that reported in renal transplant patients 22.931.8L/h 30 31 and liver transplant patients 21.926.5L/h 27 32. It was comparable to lung transplant patients 17.536.5L/h 33 34 and was higher than that in patients with nephrotic syndrome 10.8 L/h 28 and in healthy populations 10.313.9L/h 3537. The only pharmacokinetic study in the MG population that was previously performed by Chen etal. 20 reported a mean CL/F value of 3.6L/h which isFig. 4 Boxplots of the distributions of simulated tacrolimus trough concentrations for CYP3A51/1 1/3 and 3/3 on 1.5 2 3 4 and 5mg q12h and 3 4 6 8 and 10mg q24h regimens for the non-combined Wuzhi capsule group in MG patients.
After concomitant use of Wuzhi capsules the CL/F of patients with the 1/1 and 1/3 genotype decreased to 18.4L/h and 15.6L/h respectively closer to the CL/F values of 17.1 reported in patients with the 3/3 genotype. A previous study 45 reported that Wuzhi capsules can increase the C0/D of tacrolimus in CYP3A51/1 and 1/3 genotype but has no significant effect on 3/3 genotype. However only one subject with the 3/3 genotype was co-administered with a Wuzhi capsule therefore the influence of Wuzhi capsules on the CYP3A533 genotype could not be evaluated accurately in our study.Genotyping has proven to be effective in predicting the starting dose of tacrolimus 29 46. Based on the final model we developed a dosing regimen for patients with MG with different CYP3A5 genotypes who received tacrolimus with a Wuzhi capsule. There was a significant difference p < 0.05 in the dosage requirements between CYP3A5 expressers and non-expressers. Our analysis showed that with a tacrolimus dosing regimen of 2mg q12h > 75% of subjects with the CYP3A533 genotype could achieve the target tacrolimus C0 of 4.8ng/mL.
PLP Proteolipid protein PTPN22 Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 TCR T cell receptor TEC Thymic epithelial cell Tfh T follicular helper TLR3 Toll-like receptor 3 TREC T cell receptor excision circles Treg Regulatory T cells. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is a rare neuromuscular disorder due to antibodies directed against molecules of the neuromuscular junction. If antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor AChR are found in about 85 % of MG patients there are other minor forms of MG with other autoantibodies. In approximately 5 % of MG patients the autoreactive antibodies are directed against a protein called muscle-specific kinase MuSK which plays a central role in the clustering of AChRs and other postsynaptic components at the neuromuscular junction NMJ 1. Recently autoantibodies against the agrin receptor LRP4 low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 a molecule that forms a complex with MuSK have been detected in a small proportion of MG patients without anti-AChR or anti-MuSK antibodies 2 3.The development of autoantibodies in autoimmune disorders is due to a breakdown of the mechanism of tolerance associated with defects in the regulation of the immune system. However each autoimmune pathology has specific features 4.
Second MG patients on steroids are unlikely to remain disabled. In Pascuzzis series 80% returned to work or usual activities of daily living. Third there is an increased frequency of remissions in MG patients on steroids. Defining remission as no more than minimal eye closure weakness Pascuzzi observed this in 28% of patients. And finally aside from an initial exacerbation of weakness described in what follows MG patients on long-term steroids are unlikely to worsen. Of the patients who significantly improved in the Pascuzzi series and who were followed for up to 17 years only 18% had a subsequent exacerbation which was related mostly to discontinuing or rapidly reducing prednisone. DO THE SIDE EFFECTS AND COSTS OF STEROID TREATMENT OUTWEIGH THE BENEFITS. Steroids produce significant side effects Table 2. Within the first few weeks of treatment approximately 50% of patients experience worsening weakness before improvement.9 Exacerbations are more frequent with high-dose daily steroid regimens butalso occur in up to 19% of patients started on low alternate-day doses. Pretreatment with plasmapheresis can prevent or minimize steroid-induced worsening. The long-term side effects of steroids are well known9 but can be minimized.
If a regional anaesthesia method cannot be used it is important to optimize the drugs and doses for good analgesia in patients with myasthenia. Opioids can worsen the already affected respiratory function because of their depressant action on the respiratory centre. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs can worsen the symptoms of myasthenia gravis per se. Metamizol should not have any impact on myasthenia gravis8 but our patient had some unexplained respiratory distress in the past after a metamizol injection so we decided to avoid this drug. Our patient had a good preoperative experience with the analgesic combination of diclofenac and orphenadrine so we decided to combine the mentioned analgesia with intermittent boluses of piritramid. This combination of analgesics was very effective during the whole postoperative period.In summary the presented case shows a good experience with the use of rocuronium combined with sugammadex in a patient with myasthenia. With this combination we achieved a sufficient muscular blockade and excellent conditions for the intubation and the surgery.
Mycophenolate mofetil MyM has been successfully used for treating patients with allogeneic transplants and other immune-mediated diseases.37 In the past few years there have been several reports from Western countries indicating MyM may be safer more effective and better tolerated by MG patients.810 Currently there are a number of phase three clinical trials ongoing and at this stage no results have been published. We report our experience using MyM in five patients with myasthenia gravis who had recurrent acute exacerbations and were less responsive to the commonly used immunotherapies. Corresponding author. Tel. 65 63265003 fax 65 62203321. E-mail address gnrpksgh.com.sg K.M. Prakash. end. 2 end. Case reports. end. 2.1 end. Case 1 end. A forty-year-old Chinese woman presented with a 1-month history of bilateral ptosis mild difficulty swallowing and weakness of her limbs. Examination revealed moderate ptosis mild orbicularis oris and oculi weakness bilaterally mild weakness of neck flexor and proximal upper extremities. She had normal speech and eye movements. The Tensilon test repetitive nerve stimulation and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies were positive. She was commenced on pyridostigmine 120 mg three times per day and prednisolone 40 mg every morning.
She had no CT thorax evidence of thymoma. She was discharged symptomless after a month of in-patient stay. However she developed myasthenic crisis within 2 months of discharge requiring mechanical ventilation and immunoglobulin therapy. After 3 weeks she was commenced on MyM 500 mg three times daily in addition to prednisolone and pyridostigmine. She remained well with no subsequent myasthenic crisis over the last 11 months. The prednisolone was progressively reduced to 20 mg every morning while pyridostigmine was further reduced to 120 mg three times daily. 2.4 end. Case 4 end. A 21-year-old Chinese man presented with acute ptosis double vision and limb weakness. He had strongly positive repetitive nerve stimulation and single fiber electromyographic studies. Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies were elevated as well. He was treated with pyridostigmine 120 mg three times daily and prednisolone 40 mg in the morning. He subsequently underwent thymectomy. Postthymectomy he had a total of five admissions within 18 months three of which required mechanical ventilation. His medications included pyridostigmine 120 mg six times per day prednisolone 60 mg and azathioprine 100 mg both every morning.
Anand P Slama MCC Kaku M et al. COVID- 19 in patients with myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve. 202062254- 271. https//doi. org/10.1002/mus.26918. 16 end. Rein N Haham N Orenbuch- Harroch E et al. Description of 3 patients with myasthenia gravis and COVID- 19. J Neurol Sci. 2020417117053. https//doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2020.117053. 17 end. Camelo- Filho AE Silva AMS Estephan EP et al. Myasthenia gravis and COVID- 19 clinical characteristics and outcomes. Front Neurol. 2020111053. https//doi.org/10.3389/fneur.2020.01053. 18 end. Singh S Govindarajan R. COVID- 19 and generalized Myasthenia Gravis exacerbation a case report. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2020196 https//doi.org/10.1016/j.cline uro.2020.106045. 19 end. Moschella P Rothe P. Isolated COVID- 19 infection precipitates Myasthenia gravis crisis a single case report. Clin Pract Cases Emerg Med. 20204524- 526. https//doi.org/10.5811/ cpcem.2020.9.49049. 20 end. Ramaswamy SB Govindarajen R. COVID- 19 in refractory Myasthenia gravis- a case report of successful outcome. J Neuromuscul Dis. 20207361- 364. https//doi.org/10.3233/ JND- 200520. 21 end. Hoang P Hurtubise B Muppidi S. Clinical reasoning therapeutic considerations in myasthenic crisis due to COVID- 19 infection. Neurology. 202095840- 843.
w xHauser et al. 2 reported a successful use of mycopheno .late in one case of myasthenia gravis MG in 1998. More recently three other papers have reported objective imw xprovement in additional patients 35 . We have been using mycophenolate for 3 years for the treatment of patients with a variety of autoimmune neuromuscular diseases and report our initial experience in seven patients. 2 end. Clinical material and results. We report a good-to-excellent initial response to mycophenolate in three patients with MG two patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy  . .CIDP  one patient with polymyositis PM secondary to Corresponding author. Tel. q1-305-243-7519 fax q1-305-2437525. .E-mail address wbradleymed.miami.edu W.G. Bradley . .limb girdle muscular dystrophy LGMD  and one patient  . .with inclusion body myositis IBM see Table 1 . All  .except Patient 7 see Case History below and Table 2 had been severely disabled by their condition had previously received other immunosuppressive therapies and were not well controlled with other than very high doses of other immunosuppressive treatments that produced significant side effects.Mycophenolate was begun at a dose of 0.5 grday and increased to 1 g twice daily over 23 weeks.
On examination she had classical IBM with weakness and wasting of the wrist flexors and tibialis anterior muscles and mild weakness of the biceps iliopsoas and quadriceps muscles. The muscle biopsy was diagnostic. Treatment with prednisone 30 mgrday and mycophenolate 15002000 mgrday resulted in a progressive increase in strength of grip and tibialis anterior mus .cles see Table 2 . The strength of the left tibialis anterior muscle increased fivefold over 12 months. Strength and function began to deteriorate 3 months after discontinuation of prednisone and mycophenolate therapy.Side effects were mild. One patient discontinued mycophenolate after 6 months because of fatigue. One patient had to discontinue mycophenolate because of abdominal pain and the cost of the medication. Three patients had insomnia dizziness or tremulousness but were able to continue mycophenolate treatment. No patient showed a significant change in hematological hepatic or renal function measures.We have used mycophenolate in the treatment of over 25 patients to date including six patients with IBM and most patients have shown a moderate to excellent response. 3 end. Discussion. Mycophenolate is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydrolyzed by the liver to its biologically  .
AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. CONCLUSION This updated formal consensus guidance of international MG experts based on new evidence provides recommendations to clinicians caring for MG patients worldwide. Introduction Evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG have historically been difficult to develop because of limited evidence from studies with a low risk of bias such as large well-designed randomized controlled studies RCTs. To address the lack of uniform globally accepted standards for the care of people with MG the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA appointed a Task Force in 2013 to develop treatment recommendations for MG. A panel of 15 international experts in the treatment of MG was convened and in 2016 published an international consensus guidance for management of MG. 1 Results of several new trials of MG treatment have been published since that guidance statement was published and in 2019 the panel reviewed the previous recommendations for currency and identified new topics that may affect practice.
Median 9 range 6-9 Ocular MG A small RCT comparing prednisone to placebo in 11 ocular MG patients who had previously failed to achieve minimal manifestation MM status after 4-6 weeks of pyridostigmine found that five of six participants 83% in the prednisone group achieved the primary end-point of sustained MM status at a median of 14 weeks on prednisone median dose 15mg/day compared to none of 5 in the placebo group. 6 Three of the five placebo participants switched to prednisone AC CE PT ED Copyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 60 mg/day with rapid taper two attained sustained MM status. A prospective cohort study of 13 consecutive ocular and 76 generalized MG patients evaluated the effect of immunosuppressive IS agents on ophthalmoparesis. 7 F fty-nine percent of patients had complete resolution of ophthalmoparesis within 122 months of initiation of IS agents. Patients with milder ophthalmoparesis had greater odds of symptom resolution in the first year of treatment. Median time to resolution was 7 months after IS agents were started. Evidence for the efficacy of thymectomy in ocular MG is limited by the retrospective design of most published studies.
Research support from ArgenX Ra Immunovant MGFA Benatar M Advisory Boards Immunovant Viela Bio Site-PI on industry trials UCB Federal funding Site-PI for MGNet U54115054 Cea G No relevant disclosures Evoli A Scientific award jury member for Grifols and a safety data monitor for UCB Gilhus NE Consultant for Ra Pharma Argenx and UCB. Speakers honoraria from Octapharma Alexion and MerckSerono Illa I Consultant and Scientific award jury member for Grifols Kuntz NL Medical advisory boards for Argenx Audentes AveXis Biogen Cytokinetics Roche and Sarepta Massey JM Site PI Revance Therapeutics Melms A Advisory board UCB Murai H Consultant for Alexion Argenx and Ra Speaker honoraria from the Japan Blood Products Organization Research support from the Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare Japan Palace J partly funded by highly speci. alised services to run a national congenital myasthenia service and a neuromyelitis service support for scientific meetings and honorariums for advisory work from Merck Serono Biogen Idec Novartis Teva Chugai Pharma and Bayer Schering Alexion Roche Genzyme MedImmune EuroImmun MedDay Abide ARGENX UCB and Viela Bio and grants from Merck Serono Novartis Biogen Idec Teva Abide MedImmune Bayer Schering Genzyme Chugai and Alexion.
Patients with milder ophthalmoparesis had greater odds of symptom resolution in the first year of treatment. Median time to resolution was 7 months after IS agents were started.Evidence for the efficacy of thymectomy in ocular MG is limited by the retrospective design of most published studies. In a case control study of 47 patients with non-thymomatous ocular MG who underwent thymectomy matched to 67 patients who refused surgery there was no difference in the proportion of patients achieving stable remission at a median follow-up of 100-116 months.8 A retrospective analysis of 236 patients with thymomatous and non-thymomatous MG reported no improvement after thymectomy in 25 patients of whom 17 68% were ocular or predominantly ocular over 12 months of follow-up. 9 In another retrospective case series of 52 patients with MG only 2 of 11 patients with ocular MG 18% achieved remission post thymectomy in contrast to 28%-50% of generalized MG patients.10. A retrospective case series of 110 patients with ocular MG who underwent extended transsternal.
MG MG Manual Muscle testing MMT scores revealed significant improvement from baseline at mean follow-up of 29 19 months in the AChR-Ab and MuSK-Ab groups.20 Another prospective open label study of 14 patients with refractory AChR-Ab MuSK-Ab and seronegative MG reported improvement in MMT scores at mean follow-up of 22 months.21 The time to peak response after a single cycle of RTX was 4.5 1 months. A retrospective multicenter study of MuSK-Ab MG reported that RTX given in the dose of 375 mg/m2 weekly for 4 weeks and then monthly for the next 2 months was associated with lower relapse rates 18% compared to a regimen of two 1 gm infusions separated by 2 weeks 80%.22 A retrospective Austrian nationwide study of 56 patients with AChR-Ab and MuSK-Ab MG reported that 26% of patients were in remission 3 months after treatment with varying dosing protocols of RTX. At a median of 20 months 43% were in remission and 25% achieved MM status.23 A single center retrospective study of 21 AChR-Ab 3 MuSK-Ab and 4 double seronegative MG patients found that muscle strength improved significantly from baseline at 6 months and then stabilized up to 36 months and PIS was improved in 43% at 6 months.24 A AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc.
8 end. Mineo TC Ambrogi V. Outcomes after thymectomy in class I myasthenia gravis. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 20131451319-1324. 9 end. Evoli A Batocchi AP Provenzano C Ricci E Tonali P. Thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis report of 247 patients. J Neurol 1988235272-276. 10 end. Hatton PD Diehl JT Daly BDT et al. Transsternal radical thymectomy for myasthenia gravis A 15-year review. Ann Thorac Surg 198947838-840. 11 end. Liu Z Feng H Yeung S-CJ et al. Extended transsternal thymectomy for the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. Ann Thorac Surg 2011921993-1999. 12 end. Roberts PF Venuta F Rendina E et al. Thymectomy in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2001122562-568. AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 13 end. Jaretzki A 3rd Barohn RJ Ernstoff RM et al. Myasthenia gravis recommendations for. clinical research standards. Task Force of the Medical Scientific Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America. Neurology 20005516-23. 14 end. Shrager JB Deeb ME Mick R et al. Transcervical thymectomy for myasthenia gravis achieves results comparable to thymectomy by sternotomy. Ann Thorac Surg 200274320-326 discussion 326-327. 15 end.
Muscle Nerve 20134876-84. AC CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 38 end. Howard JF Jr. Utsugisawa K Benatar M et al. Safety and efficacy of eculizumab in. anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive refractory generalised myasthenia gravis REGAIN a phase 3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre study. Lancet Neurol 201716976-986. 39 end. Muppidi S Utsugisawa K Benatar M et al. Long-term safety and efficacy of eculizumab in generalized myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 20196014-24. 40 end. Meningococcal infection and eculizumab/complement inhibitors online. Available at https//www.pnhleeds.co.uk/professionals/meningococcal-infection-and-eculizumabcomplement-inhibitors/. Accessed July 10 2020. 41 end. Benamu E Montoya JG. Infections associated with the use of eculizumab recommendations for prevention and prophylaxis. Curr Opin Infect Dis 201629319-329. 42 end. Girgis N Sultan Y Frenck RW Jr. El-Gendy A Farid Z Mateczun A. Azithromycin compared with rifampin for eradication of nasopharyngeal colonization by Neisseria meningitidis. Pediatr Infect Dis J 199817816-819. 43 end. Postow MA Callahan MK Wolchok JD. Immune checkpoint blockade in cancer therapy.
44 end. Topalian SL. Targeting immune checkpoints in cancer therapy. JAMA 20173181647- 1648. 45 end. Makarious D Horwood K Coward JIG. Myasthenia gravis An emerging toxicity of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Eur J Cancer 201782128-136. 46 end. Mohn N Beutel G Gutzmer R Ivanyi P Satzger I Skripuletz T. Neurological immune related adverse events associated with nivolumab ipilimumab and pembrolizumab therapyreview of the literature and future outlook. J Clin Med 20198. 47 end. Moreira A Loquai C Pfohler C et al. Myositis and neuromuscular side-effects induced by immune checkpoint inhibitors. Eur J Cancer 201910612-23. 48 end. Kao JC Brickshawana A Liewluck T. Neuromuscular complications of programmed cell death-1 PD-1 Inhibitors. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep 20181863. 49 end. Suzuki S Ishikawa N Konoeda F et al. Nivolumab-related myasthenia gravis with myositis and myocarditis in Japan. Neurology 2017891127-1134. 50 end. Dubey D David WS Reynolds KL et al. Severe neurological toxicity of immune checkpoint inhibitors growing spectrum. Annals of Neurology 202087659-669. A CE PT EDCopyright  2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology. 51 end. Safa H Johnson DH Trinh VA et al. Immune checkpoint inhibitor related myasthenia.
BMJ Open 20177e013278. doi10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013278 1Many patients with MG cannot fully participate in social activities due to the effects of the disease and its treatment.4 913 These patients therefore appear to suffer social disadvantages such as unemployment and a decrease in income which can lead to a lower HRQOL.911 13 However information regarding the prevalence of these disadvantages and their detailed associations with MG remains scarce. Therefore we conducted a cross-sectional questionnaire survey to obtain information on social disadvantages experienced by patients with MG. We also examined possible associations with detailed clinical parameters. PATIENTS AND METHODS Patients. This study was conducted at 13 neurological centres  Japan MG Registry Group see online supplementary table S1 in Japan. We evaluated patients with established MG between April and July 2015. To avoid potential bias we enrolled consecutive patients with various disease statuses over a short duration 4 months. During this period a total of 1088 patients with MG visited our hospitals. From this group we were able to collect full detailed clinical data from 923 patients and 165 were excluded from the study because of insufficient data collection.
Overall these multivariate regression models picked out similar items to those exhibited univariate correlations with social disadvantages the last paragraph and table 1.Clinical parameters and correlations with social disadvantages The backgrounds of the 917 patients and correlations of clinical parameters with the experience of social disadvantages in applicable patients are shown in table 2. In 680 patients who received income from employment the clinical parameters that exhibited significant positive correlations p<0.0001 r0.15 with experience of unemployment or unwilling job transfer and with experience of a decrease in income were identical these were thymectomy severity at worst condition MGFA classification bulbar symptoms QMG severity at current condition QMG MGC peak dose of PSL and duration of PSL 20 mg/day. Conversely achieving MM or better-5 mg at 1 and 4 years into treatment and at present exhibited significant negative correlations p<0.0001 r0.15. In the 917 patients the clinical parameters that exhibited significant positive correlations p<0.0001 r0.15 with reduced social positivity and activity were female sex severity at worst condition MGFA classification QMG severity at current condition QMG MGC and duration of PSL20 mg/day.
We found that at 4 years into treatment was the most significant time point for achieving MM or better-5 mg in regard to inhibiting experience of unemployment or unwilling job transfer OR 0.61 p0.03 experience of a decrease in income 0.61 0.04 and reduced social positivity and activity 0.49 0.005. Current MG-QOL15-J scores correlated positively with each of these social disadvantages underlined in table 2 suggesting that the current HRQOL of the patients was worse with such experiences. DISCUSSION. The questionnaire results demonstrated that unemployment or an unwilling job transfer after MG onset was experienced by 31.3% of the patients and a decrease in income was experienced by 35.9% among whom 47.1% reported a decrease in total income of more than 50%. In a large German MG cohort 21.0% of the patients experienced hardships in their jobs and 28.3% were forced to retire early due to MG.9 In a study in Thailand the unemployment rate among patients with MG was 2658% and reduced income was seen in 43 48%.10 In a community-based survey of Australian patients with MG 39.4% had been forced to stop working due to MG and 19.4% had to change their occupation.13 Only 40.6% of that cohort were working at the time of the survey and the rest were unable to w.
Wanga Y end. Lia L end. L end. Kusnerg and H. J end. KaminskibaDepartment of Neurology Beijing Friendship Hospital Capital Medical University Beijing China bDepartment of Neurology GeorgeWashington University Washington DC USA cDepartment of Pathology Peking Union Medical College Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Science Beijing dDepartment of Neurology Qilu Hospital of Shandong University Jinan eDepartment of Neurology Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University Qingdao fKey Laboratory of Geriatrics Beijing Hospital and Beijing Institute of Geria. trics Ministry ofHealth Beijing China and gDepartments of Pharmacology and Physiology George Washington University Washington DC USAKeywords glucocorticoid receptor myasthenia gravis single nucleotide polymorphism treatment efficacy variabilityReceived 2 January 2016 Accepted 4 April 2016European Journal of Neurology 2016 0 18doi10.1111/ene.13040Background and purpose Glucocorticoids GCs are the mainstay treatment of myasthenia gravis MG. However wide inter-individual variability exists in the response to GCs. Methods A Chinese cohort of 257 MG patients treated with GCs was evaluated for the association between 19 single nucleotide polymorphisms in the GR gene and clinical response to the initial 3 month GC therapy.
Results The rs17209237 G allele was less frequent in the GC insensitive group compared with the GC sensitive group P  0.013 odds ratio OR 0.119. The rs9324921 A allele was more frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group P  0.046 OR 1.94. Carriers of the rs17209237 G allele were less frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group dominant model P  0.009. Carriers of the rs9324921 A allele were more frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group dominant model P  0.037. Multivariate logistic regression revealed that the rs17209237 G allele carrier P  0.037 OR 0.12 and disease duration before GC treatment P  0.011 OR 3.45 were independent factors that contributed to GC efficacy. Conclusion rs17209237 in the GR gene was identified as an independent factor that contributes to GC efficacy in MG patients. The genetic variations of the GR gene may play a role in predicting response to GC treatment. Introduction. Glucocorticoids GCs are the mainstay of immunedirected treatment for patients with myasthenia gravis MG 12. Retrospective studies demonstrated eithermarked improvement or remission after treatment with GCs of various dosages in MG.
16.32% P  0.015 OR 0.125 95% CI 0.0170.915. The rs9324921 A allele was more frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group 38.10% vs. 24.13% P  0.046 OR 1.94 95% CI 1.003.74 Table S1 and the healthy control group 39.10% vs. 23.09% P  0.025 OR 2.05 95% CI 1.083.89. No difference in the frequencies of the rs9324921 A or the rs17209237 G allele was observed between the GC sensitive and healthy control groups 24.13% vs. 23.09% P  0.665 17.03% vs. 16.32% P  0.738 respectively. And no difference in the frequencies of the rs9324921 A or the rs17209237 G allele was observed between the MG patients and healthy control groups 25.30% vs. 23.09% P  0.346 15.81% vs. 16.32% P  0.799 respectively. No difference in allele frequencies was observed for the remaining tested SNPs between the GC insensitive and GC sensitive groups. The statistical powers were 81% for rs17209237 and 54% for rs9324921.The rs17209237 G carriers GA  GG genotypes were less frequent in the GC insensitive group than in the GC sensitive group 4.8% vs. 31.9% dominant model P  0.009. The rs9324921 A carriers CA  AA genotypes were more frequent in the GC insensitivegroup than in the GC sensitive group 66.7% vs. 43% dominant model P  0.037 Table S1.
Treatment failure was observed in only 17% of subjects in the low-dose group.10Our secondary outcome was the collection of adverse events which were exclusively found in the moderatedose group the adverse events included insomnia steroidinduced myopathy and skin abscess. Consistent with the prior study our results support the safety of low-dose prednisolone for OMG.12 Only minor adverse events were documented in our study. However in patients taking prednisolone specific monitoring measures should be in place to reduce the risks of severe adverse events including worsening blood glucose level excess weight gain worsening blood pressure upper gastrointestinal bleeding osteoporosis avascular necrosis of the hip joint and infectious disease.The strengths of our study are as follows 1 it was the first study to compare low and moderate doses of prednisolone for OMG in terms of initial treatment response 12 weeks and 2 . the doses of prednisolone in our study were calculated per body weight kg which should help in generalization to different populations regardless of body weight.This study had some limitations. First our study design was a retrospective analysis with variable clinical evaluations and investigation patterns which resulted in missing data.
The mechanisms of action of immunosuppressant drugs in MG fall into three main categories inhibition of the cell cycle azathioprine cyclophosphamide methotrexate and mycophenolate mofetil immunosuppression of T cells steroids ciclosporin and tacrolimus and B-cell depletion rituximab. Data on immunosuppressant drugs in MG derive mainly from clinical experience observational studies and expert opinion. The main drawbacks of the randomized evidence are the small size of most drug trials variations in study design and a lack of head-to-head studies. It is therefore difficult to determine the relative efficacy of each immunosuppressant. Oral prednisolone usually started at a low dose on an alternate-day regimen and gradually increased is the recommended firstchoice short-term immunosuppressant. Long-term immunosuppression regimens vary between different countries and physicians. Azathioprine is often the first-choice drug for long-term immunosuppression and it is usually started together with steroids to allow tapering of steroids to the lowest dose possible. Methotrexate mycophenolate mofetil or tacrolimus should be considered in patients who are intolerant of or unresponsive to azathioprine.
Although SFEMG is widely accepted as a sensitive diagnostic tool in the evaluation of patients with neuromuscular junction disorders there is little data regarding the use of SFEMG as a measure of disease severity and response to treatment Howard and Sanders 1981 Konishi et al. 1981. As part of a therapeutic trial of mycophenolate mofetil MM in MG Meriggioli et al. in press we performed SFEMG studies before and after treatment with MM or placebo. METHODS end. We conducted a randomized double blind placebocontrolled therapeutic trial of MM in suboptimally controlled MG and the full results of that study are in press Meriggioli et al. in press. One of the secondary measures of efficacy was the magnitude of the change in mean jitter comparing baseline values to values obtained after 5 months on the study drug. Supported in part by Roche Pharmaceuticals Co. Grant CEL 132 and by a grant from the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of Illinois. Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. Matthew N.
mean change baseline exit for all except AChRAbs which are medians.TABLE 3. Single fiber EMG summaryDescription Placebo MM P-valueMean % normal initial 37 43 Mean % normal final 39 57 Mean difference final initial 0.2 20.17 0.14 Mean % blocking initial 28.7 20.7 Mean % blocking final 23.2 10.5 Mean difference final initial 1.4 12.8 0.17 Mean MCD in sec initial 70 66.4 Mean MCD in sec final 69.3 60.52 Mean difference MCD  secinitial final 4.02 15.37 0.030MM mycophenolate mofetil MCD mean consecutive difference. % normal percent of fiber pairs with normal jitter  % block-ing percent of fiber pairs with neuromuscular blocking.J Clin Neurophysiol Vol. 20 No end. 5 2003It is possible that mean MCD may actually worsen in patients with improved neuromuscular function if the percentage of fiber pairs with severe blocking decreases so that jitter becomes measurable at previously blocked endplates. This does not appear to be the explanation for the findings in patient 13 because the percentage of fiber pairs with neuromuscular failure actually increased in this patient. Thus despite evidence of improved clinical function the physiologic abnormality in the tested muscle actually worsened.
Prednisone dose was gradually tapered beginning at week 4 the primary outcome measure was the average daily dose of prednisone during the last 12 weeks of the trial. Average daily doses of prednisone were w14 mg/day in both groups at study entry and 5 mg/day and 6.5 mg/day in the tacrolimus and placebo groups respectively during the last 12 weeks of the trial. Interleukin 2 IL2 levels were no different between the two groups throughout the study. There are several aspects of the design of this trial that make the results unsurprising including the population targeted by the inclusion and exclusion criteria and the duration of treatment. This trial aimed to recruit patients with MG who were in minimal manifestation status while taking relatively low doses of prednisone and there was no requirement for steroid dependence however defined. As such this is precisely the population in which one would expect to be able to further reduce the dose of prednisone without triggering an exacerbation of disease. Furthermore all available evidence from previously conducted randomised controlled trials in MG suggests that the steroid sparing effect of drugs such as tacrolimus emerges only after prolonged treatment.
disease end. And we are left to wonder whether this particular moment is a call to arms or a battle lost in the war for practicing medicine based on best available evidence in conjunction with clinical experience and acumen. Myasthenia gravis exacerbation after discontinuing mycophenolate. Objective To determine whether discontinuation or marked reduction of mycophenolate mofetil MMF in patients with myasthenia gravis MG causes MG exacerbations. Methods We identified 88 patients with MG who took MMF during the 5-year period 20072011 at our MG clinic. We then performed detailed chart reviews and recorded all MG exacerbations and their relationship to MMF and other treatment changes. We also recorded demographic data and disease characteristics including antibody status and Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America status. Results There were 14 patients who had an MG exacerbation during the study period. Of these 13 had discontinued MMF therapy with a median time until exacerbation of 16 weeks after discontinuation 9 patients or marked dose reduction 4 patients of MMF therapy exacerbation in the absence of change in any other component of the immunosuppressive regimen.
For the 4 patients who were unable to afford the costs of MMF this was due to a loss of health care insurance coverage. One patient discontinued MMF due to tinnitus which did not resolve with discontinuation of MMF. For the remaining 4 cases the MMF dose reductions were planned to minimize the risk of long-term immunosuppression. For the 13 patients who underwent an exacerbation of MG following MMF discontinuation/reduction there was a lag time of 6118 weeks median 16 weeks. Four patients in our cohort tapered or stopped MMF without having an exacerbation. One of these patients restarted MMF after 2 months within the average post discontinuation lag. Another developed mild leg weakness but this never recovered and we were unable to attribute this symptom to an MG exacerbation. For the group of 71 patients in which no or little change in MMF was made during the period of observation 1 underwent an exacerbation. She did so after sternal repair surgery.Patients older than 60 years were less likely to stop MMF therapy and also less likely to have an exacerbation a classic possible confounder. When this binary age variable was introduced into the Cox regression it was not significant nor did it reduce the apparent large increase in risk due to stopping MMF therapy.
Generally the oral dose used in renal transplant patients is 1 g twice daily 2 g/day and a dose more than 2 g/day is not recommended. However in cardiac or hepatic transplant patients the usual oral dose is 1.5 g twice daily which is slightly higher.Both of our patients are in older age group 84 and 80 years old respectively. Previous studies of MMF use in MG patients rarely included patients with age above 80. Ages of the patients in both studies by Meriggioli et al. and Sanders et al. were in the range between 18 and 80 years old Meriggioli et al. 2003a Sanders et al. 2008. Mean age of the patients treated with MMF in the latter study was 49.0 years old. Muscle Study Group recruited patients with the age of 18 and above. However upper limit of the age was not mentioned in published data by this group Muscle Study Group 2008. Another study included patients between the age of 12 and 86 but there was no serious opportunistic infection reported Meriggioli et al. 2003b. In these studies CMV or EBV infections might be underreported because the elderly especially patients above the age of 80 were rarely included.
However supportive evidence from transplant patients hasbeen lacking as it is uncommon for individuals older than 80 years old to be candidates for transplantation.Given that MMF could trigger some viral infections particularly in elderly patients with MG we suggest taking precautions and monitor for these infections particularly in elderly MG patients and also weighing the risk of potentially life threatening infection versus the beneficial effect of MMF immunosuppression. It is not known also whether testing for CMV serology should be done on all MG patients prior to starting MMF. Since prophylactic regimen for CMV infection has been utilized in transplant patients it is not clear also whether the use of prophylactic antiviral agents in MG patients particularly the elderly ones or those with positive CMV serology treated with MMF is beneficial. Leflunomide treatment in corticosteroid-dependent myasthenia gravis an open-label pilot study. Leflunomide is an effective drug used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Here we report the findings of an open-label pilot study which found that leflunomide is also an effective treatment for myasthenia gravis MG. This study recruited 15 corticosteroid-dependent MG patients.
Corticosteroid-dependent MG patients are good test subjects to confirm the efficacy of these drugs in MG treatment 14 with a number of studies recommending other drugs for their immunosuppressant MG therapy 8 10.Leflunomide licensed for the treatment of RA is an immunosuppressive agent that blocks pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis 11. An active metabolite of leflunomide A771726 teriflunomide has been investigated as an MS treatment with phase II and III clinical trials already completed 1214.Previous research has shown that experimentally induced myasthenia gravis was prevented by leflunomide Weibin Liu ranliuz163.com1 Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital ofSun Yat-sen University 58 Zhongshan 2nd Rd Yuexiu Guangzhou Guangdong Peoples Republic of Chinain rats 15. In our clinic we also observed that leflunomide could be an effective substitute for azathioprine in myasthenia patients that had poor tolerance to azathioprine. To investigate this we designed a pilot study that evaluated the short-term efficacy and safety of leflunomide in corticosteroid-dependent MG patients. Methods end. end. MG patients.
Leflunomide is tolerated well by RA patients and the discovery of only mild side effects in this study indicates similar levels of tolerability by MG patients. However the 6-month study duration may not be long enough to see the development of major side effects of leflunomide in MG patients.Different kinds of immunosuppressants such as cytostatic drugs azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil the alkylating agent cyclophosphamide and calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine A CyA and tacrolimus are currently used to treat MG 8. The main mechanism of action of leflunomide is inhibition of dihydroorotase dehydrogenase which is the key enzyme in pyrimidine synthesis 11.Therefore leflunomide can interfere with T cell mitosis. The pharmacological actions and efficacy of leflunomide in RA patients make it a reasonable choice of immunosuppressant for the treatment ofMG patients. The use of leflunomide also offers another mechanism through the inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis which interferes with lymphocyte proliferation in MG patients.Several shortcomings should be considered in the interpretation of our leflunomide efficacy results. First this pilot study compared the clinical situation of patients only before and after leflunomide treatment. The patients were their own control.
These developments are the mark of a mature scientific community and mimic most fields of medicine.The 13th International Conference on Myasthenia Gravis and Related Disorders held at the New York Academy of Sciences in New York New York on May 1517 2017 featured reports on the completed trials of thymectomy and eculizumab. Assessments of acetylcholine receptor mimetic peptides in a phase I trial and the soon-to-be-completed phase II trial of rituximab were discussed. The MGTX trial results were reviewed in detail. The meeting was held4 Ann. N.Y end. Acad end. Sci end. xxxx 2018 16 C 2018 New York Academy of Sciences.in the context of an explosion of clinical trials being performed for MG around the globe Fig. 2 as well as great interest in preclinical evaluations for MG. With this review we can add up the score card and although the team has not beaten MG there are goals being scored. Competing interests. The authors declare no competing interests. Long-term efficacy and side effects of low-dose tacrolimus for the treatment of Myasthenia Gravis. The study evaluated the efficacy of low-dose tacrolimus for treating Myasthenia Gravis MG. Data were collected from 97 patients treated with low-dose tacrolimus from February 2011 to April 2015.
Tacrolimus immunotherapy is a valid option for themanagement of MG and can be gradually reduced in dose once symptoms are improved until complete withdrawal is achieved.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Tacrolimus Prognosis CYP3A5 Randomized controlled trial Neurology. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an acquired chronic autoimmune disease characterized by antibody-mediated skeletal muscle weakness caused by autoantibodies against acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junctions 120. Although there are a number of available therapies for the management of MG immune regulation with the use of prednisolone and azathioprine remains the first-line treatment. However these drugs have shown poor efficacy and safety with significant longterm side effects 1 3.Tacrolimus a T-cell immunosuppressive that was originally used as an antirejection drug in organ transplantation has widely been used in the treatment of MG 1. Tacrolimus inhibits calcineurin activity eventually leading to the inhibition of T-lymphocyte signal transduction and interleukin-2 transcription resulting in T-cell suppression subsequent impairment of cytotoxic T cells and indirect suppression of B cells 4.
Additional two cases withdrew during the between the 24 and 36 month follow-up period after achieving complete stable remission. Metabolic-genetic analysis. A total of 39 patients were screened for the CYP3A53 genotype of which 1 2.56% was found to possess wildtype CYP3A51/1 18 46.1% had heterozygote CYP3A51/3 and 20 51.2% had mutant homozygote CYP3A53/3. Patients with wild-type and heterozygote and thus fast metabolism received tacrolimus doses of 2.60  0.99 2.36  1.17 1.91  1.45 and 3.00  1.00 mg respectively for the first year through fourth year. Patients with the mutant homozygote and thus slow metabolism received 2.44  0.89 1.90  1.29 1.33  1.14 and 2.50  0.71 mg respectively for the first year through fourth year. Since only 5 patients 3 with fast metabolism and 2 with slow metabolism who underwent metabolic analysis completed the full 4 year followup we compared the dose of tacrolimus of between the slow n  15 and fast metabolic groups n  14 using a 2 year follow-up period and no statistically significant difference was found Fig. 1. end. Follow-up.
CD4 T cells play a diverse role in adaptive immunity through their ability to differentiate into T helper subsets with defined roles to induce immune tolerance promote inflammation or support B cell function. In MuSK-MG CD4 T cells exhibit enhanced inflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses Yi et al. 2014 Yilmaz et al. 2015. Thus targeted T cell therapies may be an effective and well tolerated treatment approach.Tacrolimus is an immunosuppressant that inhibits T cell activationhttps//doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2018.11.006 Received 20 August 2018 Received in revised form 25 October 2018 Accepted 22 November 2018Abbreviations MG myasthenia gravis MuSK muscle specific kinase AChR acetylcholine receptor LRP4 lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 FKBP FK506 binding protein NFAT nuclear factor of activated T cell FOXP3 .
f T cell proliferation Fig. 3A B end. Tacrolimus had no effect on IL-4 producing CD4 T cells. The ratio of Th1/Treg and Th17/Treg decreased with 10 ng/mL Tacrolimus with a decrease from 0.714  0.697 to 0.147  0.158 p0.0014 and 0.068  0.095 to 0.017  0.013 p0.0233 respectively data not shown. Tacrolimus had a similar effect on CD8 T cells by suppressing IFN- and IL-2 production Fig. 3C end. Overall tacrolimus inhibits Th1 IFN- or IL-2 producing CD4 T cells and Th17 IL-17 producing CD4 T cells associated cytokines whereas IL-4 a Th2 associated cytokine was not affected by tacrolimus. 3.5 end. Tacrolimus suppresses IL-17 IFN-CD4 T cell and IFN-IL-. end. 2 CD4 T cell subsets. Next we analyzed whether tacrolimus could inhibit a subset of CD4 T cells known as pathogenic Th17 cells in MuSK-MG patients. This subset was recently defined as Th17 cells that simultaneously produce IL-17 and IFN- Gaublomme et al. 2015 Hirota et al. 2011. In the presence of tacrolimus the frequency of IL-17 IFN-CD4 T cells were significantly suppressed with both the 10 ng/mL and 100 ng/mL concentrations of tacrolimus Fig. 4A B P 0.001 P 0.001. Th1 cells that can produce IFN- and IL-2 have robust proinflammatory effects Pantaleo and Harari 2006.
It is clear that Th1 and Th17 cells are involved in promoting MG immunopathology and T cell targeted therapies such as tacrolimus may enhance treatment efficacy. Given tacrolimus mechanism of action against T cell responses we hypothesized that tacrolimus would suppress the Th1 and Th17 responses that are enhanced in MuSK-MG.Prior studies in AChR-MG patients suggest that trough concentrations of> 4.8 ng/mL or 7-8 ng/mL have been associated with favorable clinical outcomes Kanai et al. 2017 Ponseti et al. 2005. Our study supports that similar concentrations 10 ng/mL have profoundinhibitory effects on proinflammatory Th1 and Th17 responses while Th2 cells are not significantly affected. This suggests that future studies in MuSK-MG patients could use a similar drug concentration target to guide therapy.Th17 cells can be subdivided into pathogenic and non-pathogenic Th17 cells based on their cytokine profile Lee et al. 2012 Stockinger and Omenetti 2017. Pathogenic Th17 cells are implicated in experimental models of autoimmunity and more recently in human disease Hu et al. 2017. This cell subset is induced by IL-23 and simultaneously co-produces IL-17 and IFN- Gaublomme et al. 2015 Hirota et al. 2011.
The role of Tregs in the breakdown of self-tolerance in MG is uncertain. In AChR-MG reportsshowing an alteration in Treg frequencies are not consistent Fattorossi et al. 2005 Li et al. 2008 Masuda et al. 2010 Xu et al. 2012 and no changes were observed in Treg frequencies of MuSK-MG patients Yi et al. 2014. Prior to this study Tfr cell subsets have not been well reported in MG and the effect of tacrolimus on Tfr cells has not been reported in either MG or transplantation studies. The decrease in Tregs cells may be attributable to tacrolimus induced suppression of IL-2 a critical cytokine involved in the generation of Tregs Wu et al. 2006. As a result a decrease in Treg cells has consequential effects on Tfr cells which originate from Treg precursors Sage and Sharpe 2016. Given the global suppression of the Th response it may be more beneficial to evaluate the balance of the Th17 vs Treg response Noack and Miossec 2014. The dramatic inhibition of inflammatory Th1 and Th17 cells may outweigh any potential negative consequences of reduced Treg frequencies.This study has several limitations. MuSK-MG patients received a variety of immunomodulatory treatments including some with thymectomy which could confound the results.
The angiography following the TAE demon-1554 Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998strated immediate and complete cessation of arterial blood  ow to the S8 lesion Figure 2 . However CT taken shortly afte r the TAE showed that the S8 lesion was contrastenhanced afte r intravenous administration of a contrast dye suggesting the existence of e ither intersegmental communications of arteries or a blood in ow via portal  venous branches Figure 3 . Furthermore the right hypochondrial pain did not disappear even after the procedure. Therefore she  nally underwent resection of the lesions S2 S3 and S8on April 24 1996. Hepatic subsegmentectomy of S8 along with partial resections of the S2 and S3 lesions were completed without dif culty and her postoperative course was uneventful. She was discharged from the hospital on May 22 1996 with complete relief of the hypochondrial pain. No recurrence of the hemangiomas or the hypochondrial pain has been noted for one year since.Morphological Observation of Resected Specimens. Like the microscopic examination the gross appearance of the1555Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998lesions led to a diagnosis of cavernous hemangioma of the liver.
In the ir report four of the seven patients hadcoexisting diseases such as primary amyloidosis ne-phrotic syndrome  bronchial asthma and prostatecancer and three of those four male patients hadreceived eithe r prednisolone or betamethasone fortheir disease states while the fourth patient had beenFig 4. The vascular spaces of the hemangioma are shown on the right and Glissons capsule on the left. Variable-sized vesse ls resembling the portal venous branche s were frequently observed to proliferate and enter Glissons capsule asterisks hematoxylin  eosin 3 100 .1557Digestive Diseases and Sciences Vol. 43 No end. 7 July 1998treated with estrogens for his prostate cancer. Afteran extensive review of the literature  they corrobo-rated that steroid hormones could have affected thevascular wall of liver hemangiomas leading to spon-taneous rupture s.In this regard a clinical report that referred to theeffect of steroids on the vascular wall has already beenreported by Takagi et al 30 in the  eld of cardio-vascular surge ry. They described four patients whohad unde rgone aneurysmectomy because of aneurys-mal rupture s arising in the aorta and/or branches ofthe aortic arch.
Case Report This is a case report of a patient with severe and refractory myasthenia gravis MG who followed a high-dose vitamin D treatment a massive-dose treatment 80 000 to 120 000 IU/day promoted by a medical center in Brazil but still not proven and she had her first complete remission after this type of treatment with increased vitamin D serum levels 400 to 700 ng/mL. Conclusions This case report may reinforce the reported correlation between vitamin D level and disease severity and introduces a possible new use for vitamin D as a potential target for treating autoimmune diseases. We recommend large double-blind placebo-controlled randomized studies using high-dose vitamin D treatment for refractory autoimmune diseases to reliably assess this pharmacotherapy target for these diseases.
Correlation between AChR antibodieslevels 25OHD levels and disease severity according to Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America clinical classification.Cadegiani F.A. et al. Massive doses of vitamin D for refractory severe Myasthenia gravis Am J Case Rep 2016 17 51-54This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported Licenserange. Parathyroid hormone PTH decreased from 42 ng/mL to 8.5 to 9.5 ng/mL normal range 10 ng/mL to 55 ng/mL. A noticeable and direct correlation among vitamin D levels MG severity and antibody levels could be seen. The patient has only had 1 electromyography prior to the beginning of the follow-up but was not able to bring the result to us. Discussion. Medical and scientific thinking about high-dose vitamin D treatment is still confined to the recommended doses for vitamin D replacement which may not lead to many potential effects whereas in this case report vitamin D might have played a pharmacological role as it was given in massive quantities. Due to the lack of studies with supra-physiological doses of vitamin D aiming to achieve pharmacological actions strong evidence that vitamin D improves autoimmune diseases is yet to be shown.
Cytosolic receptor ability to silence or express genes and immune modulation and inflammation are features that suggest a potential role of vitamin D as a real medication for autoimmune and inflammatory illnesses 681315 with some similarities in immune response when compared to high-dose corticosteroid therapy effects. Thus the possible link between vitamin D and the immune system is at least partially known but it is still not completely understood. The chronological associations between complete remission of MG symptoms and vitamin D massive-dose treatment which had not been seen prior to this therapy relapse after a blind discontinuation and new improvement after vitamin D reintroduction show a strong exposure-withdrawal correlation which shows vitamin D to be a key tool as in this case report.Vitamin D could be an option for refractory situations in most autoimmune maladies. Some reports have shown the same vitamin D exposure correlation with improvements in patients with multiple sclerosis MS and other illnesses. Among the autoimmune disorders MS is the most empirically tested for vitamin D massive-dose despite the lack of evidence of longterm safety of massive-dose vitamin D treatment.
D end. de Boer1 J. van Egmond2 J. J end. Driessen2 L. H.J.D end. Booij2 1Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine Martini General Hospital Groningen the Netherlands. 2Department of Anesthesiology Pain  Palliative Medicine Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre the Netherlands. Summary end. A neuromuscular blocking drug NMBD induced neuromuscular blockade NMB in patients with myasthenia gravis usually dissipates either spontaneously or by administration of neostigmine. We administered sugammadex to a patient with myasthenia gravis to reverse a rocuronium-induced profound NMB. NMBDs predispose such patients to severe postoperative residual paralysis and respiratory complications. Sugammadex binds steroidal NMBDs and therefore reverses a rocuronium or vecuronium-induced NMB without interfering with cholinergic transmission. A rapid and complete recovery from profound NMB was achieved and no adverse events were observed. This case suggests that sugammadex is a safe and effective antagonist of a rocuronium induced NMB blockade in patients with myasthenia gravis. Key words. Myasthenia gravis. Sugammadex. Rocuronium. Neuromuscular blockade.
As sugammadex does not interfere with cholinergic transmission continuation of cholinesterase inhibitors preoperatively does not affect the efficacy of the reversal of neuromuscular block by sugammadex and therefore optimal muscle function is preserved.Several publications demonstrated a very fast onset and markedly prolonged duration of action of nonde polarizing NMBDs in patients with myasthenia gravis1-4. Reversal of neuromuscular block by sugammadex will eliminate the risk of residual neuromuscular blockade in such a vulnerable patient population. Reversal of rocuronium-induced profound neuromuscular block by sugammadex in our patient with myasthenia gravis was rapid efficient and without signs of postoperative residual neuromuscular blockage. Our case suggests that the combination of rocuronium and sugammadex for safe neuromuscular blockade and reversal is beneficial in myasthenia gravis.BIBLIOGRAFA1. Briggs ED Kirsch JR. Anesthetic implications of neuromuscular disease. J Anest1h 2003173177-85.2. Dillon FX. Anesthesia issues in the perioperative management of Myasthenia gravis. Semin Neurol. 200424183-94. 3 end. Hirsch NP. Neuromuscular junction in health and disease. Br J Anaesth. 2007991132-8. 4 end. Tripathi M Kaushik S Dubey P.
2007 end. Tacrolimus may be a favorable option in the management of patients with MG. It is a calcineurin inhibitor indicated for the prevention of rejectionat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 8294 http//tan.sagepub.comafter heart kidney and liver transplant. Unlike cyclosporine tacrolimus has greater potency and may result in less nephrotoxicity when used at low doses Sanders and Evoli 2010. Depending on the indication the initial dosage in transplant patients may range from 0.075 to 0.2 mg/kg/day which may achieve whole blood trough concentrations of 420 ng/ml. Its immunosuppressive action is suggested to be due to the inhibition of T lymphocyte activation through its intracellular binding to the protein FKBP-12. This complex interferes with the activity of calcineurin which in turn prevents nuclear factor of activated T-cells NF-AT from translocation and initiation of gene transcription for lymphokines such as interleukin-2 IL-2. In addition to causing T-cell inhibition tacrolimus may play a role in the suppression of humoral immunity Astellas Pharma 2013.
2007 end. Inat UCSF LIBRARY  CKM on March 27 2015tan.sagepub.comDownloaded fromTherapeutic Advances in Neurological Disorders 82100 http//tan.sagepub.comthis trial five patients with thymoma and five patients with nonthymomatous MG classification IIaIIIb receiving oral corticosteroids azathioprine or both were treated with tacrolimus 1 mg 3 times a day for 3 months. Doses of corticosteroids and AChE inhibitors were held constant during the study period however azathioprine was discontinued before initiation of tacrolimus. After 1 and 3 months a statistically significant reduction in QMGS was noted in the thymoma group versus baseline values. The nonthymoma group also demonstrated a reduction in QMGS at those time points but the difference was not statistically significant. The between-group comparison showed a statistically significant improvement in QMGS in the thymoma group versus the nonthymoma subjects. Serum AChR antibody titers were not significantly changed in either group compared to baseline. No adverse effects were observed during treatment Mitsui etal. 2007. end. Discussion. Several small prospective trials examining the use of tacrolimus in the management of MG are present in the literature.
Over 5 days the daily prednisone dose was increased to 5060 mg and then gradually reduced to 10 mg followed by further reduction as tolerated. The pyridostigmine dose was begun at 180 mg daily and increased as tolerated. Main outcome measures Follow up evaluations performed at 1 36 12 and 24 months detailed the frequency of ptosis and diplopia and the amount of ocular motor deviation in primary and downward gaze. Results The prednisone and pyridostigmine groups were similar for age sex acetylcholine receptor antibody level prism cover test results for primary and downward gaze diplopia in primary and downward gaze and unilateral ptosis. Bilateral ptosis was present in 32.4% of the pyridostigmine group and 10.9% of the prednisone group p  0.02. The prednisone group showed resolution in primary gaze diplopia downgaze diplopia unilateral ptosis and bilateral ptosis in 73.5% 75.5% 85.7% and 98% respectively at 1 month. The benefit persisted at 36 12 and 24 months except for the bilateral ptosis. The pyridostigmine group showed resolution in primary gaze diplopia downgaze diplopia unilateral ptosis and bilateral ptosis in 6.9% 17.2% 50% and 76.7% of patients after 1 month of treatment. The prism cover results improved p  0.003 in the prednisone group only.
This treatment regimen also reduces the amount of PCT measured ocular deviation in primary and downward gaze. The immediate and long term benefit also occurred in patients who failed pyridostigmine alone. Prednisone decreased the frequency of ptosis in one or both upper lids from 56.4% to 16.3% at 1 month and to 15.8% atwww.bjophthalmol.com2 years. Our results contrast with those reported for childhood OMG where only 29% of 24 patients treated with unspecified doses of prednisone pyridostigmine or both for an unspecified time improved ocular motility.12 In the current study the frequency of maintaining improved ocular motor and lid function might have been higher if the prednisone dose was reduced more slowly as is recommended for controlling systemic muscle weakness.13 We reduced the prednisone dose quickly to avoid adverse effects. Some benefit was probably gained by the combination of pyridostigmine and prednisone. Our failure rate of 12.3% contrasts with Evolis study where 6/18 33% failed to improve ocular motor function with prednisone 2550 mg alternate day therapy.7 In fact of our eight failures only four 6.1% failed to improve with moderate doses.
Seronegative MG predominantly involves the ocular muscles and has a milder disease course than seropositive MG 1425.This appears to be especially true in male subjects which may be related to the immunomodulatory effects of testosterone 25.Myasthenia gravis may be congenital or drug-induced penicillamine can induce a myasthenic syndrome 4. Intracranial lesions can masquerade as MG or occur in conjunction with it 132128. Usually parasellar tumors or aneurysms these lesions may produce fluctuating ptosis and a positive response to Tensilon. Thus patients with signs and symptoms limited to the ocular muscles may need a neuroimaging study. Other conditions such as hyperthyroidism Graves disease multiple sclerosis Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome botulism Guillain-Barre syndrome amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and progressive external ophthalmoplegia are usually readily distinguished by the temporal course of the illness associated sensory or autonomic symptoms and/or by systemic symptoms not seen with isolated MG 417.To our knowledge there are no published reports on the participation of myasthenic male or female subjects in organi. zed athletics. In part this reflects the fact that MG was often disabling or fatal in the past even with the use of anticholinesterases.
59.4% of the patients in leflunomide combined with prednisone group had experienced significant improvements in symptoms. Significant effects of leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone were observed in the first 4weeks as evidenced by decreased MGC scores. No change was observed from 4 to 8weeks after which MGC scores again decreased from 8 to 12weeks. Meanwhile we also observed that the MGC scores of the low-dose prednisone group dropped continuously within 8weeks. But there was no significant change in MGC scores from 8 to 12weeks. Generally prednisone typically require 26weeks to induce1 3significant improvements in the treatment of MG 15. The results of our study with low-dose prednisone are consistent with previous reports. However the changes of MGC scores in leflunomide combined with low-dose prednisone group were discontinuous. These results indicated that improvement of clinical symptoms in the first 4weeks was most likely due to the effects of prednisone and the significant improvement in the last 4weeks was likely due to leflunomide.
Declarations. Conflicts of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.Ethics approval This study was approved by the appropriate ethics committees in the first affiliated hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. All participants gave informed consent prior to enrollment in the study. All human studies have been approved by the appropriate ethics committee and have therefore been performed in accordance with the ethical standards laid down in the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki and its later amendments.Consent to participate The named authors consent to participate.Consent for publication The named authors consent for publication. Fluoxetine treatment for weight reduction in steroid-induced obesity a pilot study in myasthenia gravis patients. To evaluate the weight reducing effect of fluoxetine on steroid-induced obesity we conducted an open clinical intervention study of 2040 mg/day fluoxetine 24 weeks duration. Thirteen myasthenia gravis overweight long-term steroid-treated patients age 3159 2 body mass index BMI 2954 kg/m  were included. Measurements of weight BMI and routine laboratory tests were undertaken at baseline 12 and 24 weeks. Muscle strength and fatigue parameters were assessed at 4 week intervals.
1985 Bray 1985 Brownell 1982 Wadden and Stunkard Fluoxetine is a highly selective serotonin reuptake 1985. Moreover obesity may further deteriorate morbidi- inhibitor that was developed as an antidepressant. Animal ty of the underlying steroid-treated disorders. The results studies Wurtman and Wurtman 1977 Moses and Wurof conventional treatment with diet and exercise regimes tman 1984 demonstrated its suppressing effects on appe-tite and reduction of body weight. In human subjects it was  shown to be safe Zerbe 1987 and effective as anCorresponding author. Tel. 1972 3 5303811 E-mail Achironpost.tau.ac.il anorexic compound in nondepressed overweight subjects0924-977X/99/  see front matter  1999 Elsevier Science B.V. /ECNP end. All rights reserved. PI I  S0924-977X 98 00012-1Ferguson and Feighner 1987 Darga et al. 1991. The kg mean height was 169.364.1 cm. Routine laboratory aim of the present study was to evaluate the weight tests complete blood count electrolytes kidney and liver reducing effects of fluoxetine in nondepressed glucocor- function tests glucose and creatinine phosphokinase free ticoid-dependent MG patients as a model of treatment for thyroxine and thyroid-stimulating hormone at baseline 12 steroid-induced obesity. and 24 weeks were normal.
Nine patients subjectively the diagnosis of the disease .10 kg b Failure to reduce reported reduced fatigue. weight under diet c Sleep apnea electroencephalogram Side effects were minimal and transient. Three patients and sleep laboratory proven judged to be related to complained of nausea during the first 3 weeks and one obesity d Severe mobility restrictions due to obesity patient suffered from insomnia during the first 10 days of inability to walk a distance greater than 20 meters e treatment. Six patients reported diminished craving for Dyspnea on minimal effort holding legs in the air while sweets. lying supine and holding arms in the air while lying supine.Patients were included in the study only if they fulfilled 4. Discussion both criteria a and b and at least one of the criteria c to e. In the present study we used MG as a disease model inPatients weights were obtained at baseline prior to which chronic steroid treatment is required to induce fluoxetine treatment 12 weeks afterwards and upon remission. In such diseases steroid-induced obesity results completion at 24 weeks. Routine laboratory tests were in excessive weight gain that may further deteriorate the obtained at these time points. Patients had a neurological clinical symptomatology.
After the antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titer was normalized and the thymoma shrunk with prednisolone the patient was free from symptoms. On pathological examination the majority of the thymoma type B2 had been hyalinized. Preoperative steroid therapy was effective in stabilizing myasthenia gravis and in inducing apoptosis of both epithelial and lymphocytic components of the thymoma. Keywords end. Myasthenia gravis prednisolone thymoma thymectomy. Introduction. Several retrospective studies have shown that preoperative programmed alternate-day administration of prednisolone stabilizes the symptoms of myasthenia gravis MG and facilitates a reduction of the frequency of post-thymectomy myasthenic crisis.1 Although care is necessary because the preoperative use of high doses of steroids might increase morbidity such as wound infection the strategy is now widely used. We encountered a case in which steroid therapy was effective in stabilizing MG as well as inducing apoptosis of both the epithelial and lymphocytic components of a thymoma. Case report. A 72-year-old woman first recognized blepharoptosis in 2004 but did not consult a physician. In November 2007 she experienced weakness of the extremities and myasthenia gravis MG was diagnosed.
Since humans expressing the ApoE4 protein isoform display enhanced circulating levels of activated T cells compared to individuals expressing ApoE3 or ApoE2 isoforms one could hypothesize that the genetic susceptibility conferred by APOE2/E4 genes to the development of MG is associated with the modulation of T cell impact on nAChR-Ab generation. It was hypothesized that this is a consequence of the augmented antigen presentation ability by ApoE4-expressing dendritic cells 94. 4.2 end. Cholesterol dysfunction in MG and pleiotropic effects of statins. In MG the autoimmune attack of nAChRs is a complex reaction that goes beyond the crosslinking of the receptor molecules and their degradation by antigenic modulation. Myasthenic serum immunoglobulins of MG patients 39 and purified monoclonal antibodies 40 accelerate nAChR endocytic internalization and the associated complement-mediated reaction affects the postsynaptic membrane with a concomitant loss of membrane components including cholesterol a feedback mechanism that enhances the rate of internalization even further.
roids910 have been used to normal ize ocular motor dysfunction in patients with either GMG or OMG. However cor ticosteroids have not been generally recommended for OMG because of theSee Patients and Methods on next page From the Departments of Ophthalmology and Neurology New York University Medical Center New York NY Drs Kupersmith Bhuiyan Warren and Weinberg and Albert Einstein Medical Center Philadelphia Pa Dr Moster.Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a New York University User on 06/03/2015PATIENTS AND METHODSA retrospective chart review on all patients with my asthenia gra. vis evaluated between 1983 and 1994 by the neuro-ophthalmology services of New York Uni versity Medical Center New York NY and Temple/ Albert Einstein Medical Center Philadelphia Pa re vealed 32 patients with OMG who were treated with oral corticosteroids and were followed up for a mini mum of 2 years from the time of diagnosis. Prior to our evaluation 27 patients had symptoms for 2 months or less and 5 patients had symptoms longer than 1 year. These patients were consecutive and treated with cor ticosteroids in some cases immediately after diagno sis or after a poor response to mestinon.
mbenatarmed.miami.eduEfficacy of Prednisone in the Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia EPITOME is a multicenter randomized double blind placebo-controlled trial that is being conducted under the auspices of the Muscle Study Group. EPITOME is the first randomized control trial in patients with ocular myasthenia and aims to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of prednisone over a period of four months in patients with newly diagnosed ocular myasthenia whose symptoms have failed to remit in response to a trial of cholinesterase inhibitor therapy.Keywords ocular myasthenia steroids clinical trial evidence-based medicine. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis is a generalized disorder that often manifests initially as focal weakness. The most common focal presentation is ocular with weakness involving the extraocular muscles eyelid levators and orbicularis oculi. The two leading ocular symptoms are ptosis and diplopia.
Outcome measures at subsequent study visitsare performed on pyridostigmine because the study aims to compare the efficacy of pyridostigmine with that of the combination of prednisone and pyridostigmine. Sample size considerations. Published retrospective data were used to estimate the sample size for the EPITOME trial. These data suggest that 75% of OM patients achieve remission on prednisone plus pyridostigmine after failing to remit on pyridostigmine alone compared to 31% on pyridostigmine alone18 over a four-month period. Key assumptions underlying our calculations include a some proportion less than the observed 75% of the prednisone treated group will achieve remission i.e.  25% will experience treatment failure b some proportion less than the observed 31% of the placebo treated group will remit i.e.  69% will fail and c prednisone will be stopped in 10% of participants because of adverse events this did not occur in our retrospective study. Based on a and c we assumed that  35%  25%  10% of subjects in the prednisone group would experience treatment failure.
Conflicts of interest. The authors declare no conflicts of interest. Clinical predictors of steroid-induced exacerbation in myasthenia gravis. Although oral corticosteroids are effective for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG the possibility of steroid-induced exacerbation of symptoms especially during the initial course of steroid therapy has limited their use patients with severe MG. However the factors influencing or predicting in exacerbation are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical factors that predict the initial paradoxical exacerbation of MG in response to steroid therapy. Fifty-five consecutive patients who were administered for the first time high doses of prednisone 4080 mg in a tertiary medical centre in Seoul were included. Prednisone-induced exacerbation was defined as a significant reduction in a patients Myasthenia Gravis Severity Scale MSS score within 4 weeks of prednisone administration. We divided the patients into two groups on the basis of whether or not they experienced prednisone-induced exacerbation and investigated the differences between the two groups with respect to clinical laboratory and electrophysiological features. Twenty-three patients 42% experienced definite exacerbation after prednisone therapy.
A high daily dosage of prednisone relative to body weight was found to be neither a predictor of exacerbation nor a predictor of early improvement in bivariate correlation analysis. Steroid-induced exacerbation in MG is a frequently encountered and challenging problem. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of exacerbation of MG when prescribing prednisone especially when treating elderly bulbar dominant or severely myasthenic patients. 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Although oral corticosteroids are effective for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG the possibility of steroid-induced exacerbation of symptoms especially during the initial course of steroid therapy has limited their use patients with severe MG. However the factors influencing or predicting in exacerbation are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical factors that predict the initial paradoxical exacerbation of MG in response to steroid therapy. Fifty-five consecutive patients who were administered for the first time high doses of prednisone 4080 mg in a tertiary medical centre in Seoul were included.
We divided the patients into two groups on the basis of whether or not they experienced prednisone-induced exacerbation and investigated the differences between the two groups with respect to clinical laboratory and electrophysiological features. Twenty-three patients 42% experienced definite exacerbation after prednisone therapy. Older age predominantly severe bulbar symptoms and low MSS score were found to be significant clinical predictors of exacerbation by multivariate logistic regression analysis. A high daily dosage of prednisone relative to body weight was found to be neither a predictor of exacerbation nor a predictor of early improvement in bivariate correlation analysis. Steroid-induced exacerbation in MG is a frequently encountered and challenging problem. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of exacerbation of MG when prescribing prednisone especially when treating elderly bulbar dominant or severely myasthenic patients. 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Steroids Prednisone Exacerbation Predictor. 1 end. Introduction. The first immunosuppressive agents used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG were corticosteroids. Prednisone is the most commonly used agent in the US12 and in our opinion also in Korea in our opinion.
However paradoxical exacerbation of MG by prednisone is also a well-known phenomenon especially during the initial course of therapy.35 The reported frequency of prednisone-induced exacerbation varies between 25% and 75%.71112 A wide range of severities of exacerba-0967-5868/ - see front matter 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.jocn.2005.12.041 Corresponding author. Tel. 82 2 3410 3594 fax 82 2 3410 0052. E-mail address bjkimsmc.samsung.co.kr B.J. Kim.tion have also been reported varying between mild aggravation of weakness to death from respiratory failure.67Prednisone is usually used as a secondary agent in combination therapy for MG when symptoms cannot be adequately controlled with anti-cholinesterase agent monotherapy. Accordingly it is likely that prednisone-induced exacerbation is a frequent problem for clinicians who prescribe prednisone for anti-cholinesterase-resistant MG. Thus factors that provoke prednisone-induced exacerbation and methods that can prevent or minimize prednisone-induced exacerbation are topics of great relevance to clinicians. However until recently no published studies concerning MG have focused on these issues.The current study was designed to determine the incidence and clinical features of prednisone-induced exacerbation.
p < 0.05.correlation p > 0.05. Daily dose of prednisone per kilogram body weight was neither a significant predictor of exacerbation nor related to early improvement. 4 end. Discussion. Currently steroids are the mainstay of immunotherapy for MG. However a well-designed randomized controlled trial proving the effectiveness of steroids for the treatment of MG has not been performed.10 The reported frequency of steroid-induced exacerbation varies between 25% and 75%71112 but the definition of exacerbation in these studies was inconsistent therefore comparisons between them are difficult. Recent hypotheses for the mechanisms by which worsening occurs are the action of released antibodies from degraded lymphocytes increased activity of cholinesterase in neuromuscular junctions and an overall increase in immune reactions.1315 However the main mechanism is not clearly understood despite many hypotheses. There is also ongoing debate about the optimal treatment regimen for achieving maximal efficacy and minimal side effects.
Because there are no objective laboratory tools to measure the severity of MG symptoms our clinical definition is an improvement on the subjective and obscure definitions of worsening used in previous reports. The second problem relates to factors influencing the symptoms of MG. Previous studies did not consider confounding factors such as combined MG medication except for prednisone the presence of thymoma or recent plasma exchange or thymectomy. Our study included only patients who were being treated with prednisone for the first time and who had no history of being treated with other immunosuppressive agents. We analyzed the dosage of pyridostigmine at the time of prednisone addition and we excluded patients who could have been influenced by recent interventions. These factors were not identified as significant predictors. Neither were any of the following predictors presence of thymoma thymectomy or titre of acetylcholine receptor antibody.Developed on the basis of empirical data the large-dose prednisone regimen used in our clinic is a single dose of 60 80 mg per day. In the present study we calculated the dosage of prednisone per kilogram body weight and analyzed whether the dosage was related to either the probability of worsening or the rapidity of improvement.
Eight patients improved beginning after 2 weeks to 2 months. No major side effects were observed.NEUROLOGY 2001569799E. Ciafaloni MD J.M. Massey MD B. TuckerLipscomb RN BSN APN and D.B. Sanders MDMycophenolate mofetil MM CellCept Roche Laboratories Nutley NJ is a novel and potent immunosuppressive agent. It blocks purine synthesis in activated T and B lymphocytes and selectively inhibits their proliferation while leaving other cell lines intact.1 It has been proven effective in preventing organ rejection in renal transplant patients when used with corticosteroids and cyclosporine.23 It has a strong safety profile and no major organ toxicity or mutagenic effect.2-5 Immunosuppressive therapy is effective in MG and the use of corticosteroids azathioprine and cyclosporine have changed the prognosis . of this autoimmune disease. Unfortunately these agents all carry serious side effects and some patients do not tolerate them or respond adequately to them. The possibility of a new effective and safe immunosuppressive agent to add to our MG treatment armamentarium is very attractive. The use of MM in MG has not been studied but successful treatment of one patient with severe refractory MG suggested its potential role in this disease.6Patients and methods.
Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune disorder generally mediated by antibodies against the acetylcholine receptors of the skeletal muscles. Depending on the disease burden MG patients may experience chronic dysregulation of both the hormonal stress axis and the immune system consequently aggravating the disease itself but also leading to secondary psychopathological abnormalities. A long-term clinical course requires long-term glucocorticoid GC therapy which may change the psychological state by affecting the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients. In this study we investigated the function of the pituitary-adrenocortical system in MG patients who were treated with prednisolone PSL and evaluated their quality of life by using the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey and the 28-item general health questionnaire GHQ-28. ACTH and cortisol levels in the plasma of patients who were treated with PSL PSL group n  18 were lower than those in the plasma of patients who were treated without PSL PSLj group n  29 P G 0.05 and P G 0.01 respectively. In the PSL group we confirmed that cortisol levels negatively correlated with daily PSL dosages P G 0.05.
6B end. However a significant negative correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and anxiety and insomnia of GHQ-28 was observed r j0.29 P  0.03 Fig. 6A end. These results suggest that GC administration or intrinsic cortisol had a beneficial effect to reduce anxiety and insomnia in MG patients. In the PSL patients there was no significant correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and anxiety/insomnia scores Fig. 7B end. However there was a significantly negative correlation between the anxiety/insomniascores evaluated by GHQ-28 and corticotropin levels in plasma r  j0.47 P  0.023 Fig. 7A. end. DISCUSSION. In this study we investigated the function of the pituitaryadrenocortical system in 18 MG patients who were treated with PSL compared with 29 MG patients who were treated without PSL. The number of subjects was not enough to show the function of the pituitary-adrenocortical system of the MG patients however our results may provide new insights on the importance of GC treatment for MG patients. Cortisols play an important role in the successful adaptation to stress. Chronic excess 2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins www.clinicalneuropharm.com 33Copyright  2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins.
vity19 and then reduce those stress responses. Both corticotropin and cortisol concentrations in the PSL group were significantly lower than those in the PSLj group Fig. 1 end. However these levels were not lower than the reference range of healthy subjects corticotropin 7.4Y55.7 pg/mL cortisol 4.0Y18.3 mg/dL during GC therapy. We also confirmed that their emotional state was not severe according to the results of SF-36 or GHQ-28 in this study. Patients who were being treated with psychoactive medications were not included in our study.Furthermore we also evaluated their QOL by using the GHQ-28 and the SF-36. The GHQ-28 is known as an adequate questionnaire for measuring the psychological aspects of QOL. We also examined health-related QOL using the SF-36 in the present study. However there were no differences between these groups Fig. 4 end. The SF-36 has been designed to assess the im-pact of disease on perceived well-being and consists of the PCS and MCS. Two independent studies have previously used the SF-36 questionnaire to examine the health-related QOL in MG patients with varying degrees of disease severity.1020 We confirmed that SF-36 PCS was significantly negatively correlated with the QMG scores r j0.649 P G 0.0001 data not shown.
When we compared the QMG score which is a standardized quantitative strength scoring system developed specifically for MG among the MG patients who were treated with PSL and those who were treated without PSL no significant difference was observed Table 1. It means that there was no significant difference in the efficacy of the treatment on the physical status between these groups.In our study a significant negative correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and anxiety and insomnia of GHQ-28 was observed Fig. 6A end. Similar to the intrinsic adrenal cortisol GC therapy may have possibly regulated the HPA activity negatively in MG patients. As shown in Figure 5 18 MG patients34 www.clinicalneuropharm.com  2012 Lippincott Williams  WilkinsCopyright  2012 Lippincott Williams  Wilkins. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.who had been treated with PSL had less anxiety and insomnia or depression than the 29 MG patients who had been treated without PSL by using the GHQ-28.
In general depression and anxiety tended to be more common in women than in men. As shown in Table 1 the number of women in the PSL group was the same as that in the PSLj group although the number of subjects in the PSL group was fewer than that in the PSLj group. As such we compared the corticotropin or cortisol levels between men and women but no difference was observed. Next we investigated the influence of GC treatment on the emotional state of the female MG patients. Although there was no difference in corticotropin or cortisol levels between the PSLj and PSL groups 13 female MG patients who had been treated with PSL had also less anxiety and insomnia than the 13 female MG patients who had been treated without PSL as estimated by the GHQ-28 P  0.003 data not shown. This result was similar as to those of all study participants.In MG patients depression has been reported to be caused by the stress of the disease.21 Consequently in 1 study up to 20% of MG patients were initially diagnosed as having a psychiatric disorder.22 In healthy subjects corticotropin levels significantly correlated with cortisol level.23 However as shown in Figure 2A no significant correlation was observed between corticotropin and cortisol levels in plasma of MG patients who were not .
A dissociation between plasma cortisol and corticotropin levels has also been previously demonstrated in response to both psychological and physiological stress.24 Although corticotropin continues to be the dominant factor playing a significant modulating influence on the axis arginine vasopressin endotheline25 macrophage-migration factor26 and a variety of cytokines such as IL-627 have also been included as factors. Simon28 reported that treatment with corticotropin had a beneficial effect in MG in 1935. In a study of more than 100 patients with severe refractory MG who were given corticotropin good improvement was reported.29 Consequently we observed a significant negative correlation between cortisol levels in plasma and daily dosage of PSL r  j0.38 P  0.03 Fig. 3B end. Both corticotropin and cortisol concentrations in the PSL group were significantly lower than those in the PSLj group Fig. 1 end. However the corticotropin and cortisol levels of the MG patients were not lower than the reference range for the healthy subjects during GC therapy. In MG patients who were treated with PSL there was a significantly negative correlation between the anxiety/insomnia scores evaluated by GHQ-28 and corticotropin levels in plasma r  j0.47 P  0.023 Fig. 7B end.
7A the corticotropin levels in plasma significantly correlated with the cortisol levels in plasma Fig. 2B.From these observations we concluded that low-dose GC treatment complemented the pituitary-adrenocortical system and improved the psychological state in MG patients. Brief Communications Mycophenolate mofetil A safe and promising immunosuppressant in neuromuscular diseases. Mycophenolate mofetil A safe and promising immunosuppressant in neuromuscular diseases Article abstractThe authors report the use mycophenolate mofetil MM in the treatment of neuromuscular diseases. Thirty-eight patients 32 with MG three with inflammatory myopathy and three with chronic acquired demyelinating neuropathy were treated with MM for an average duration of 12 months. All patients tolerated MM without major side effects. Twenty-four patients improved either in their functional status or in their ability to reduce corticosteroid dose. Mean time to improvement was 5 months. Brief Communications. Mycophenolate mofetil A safe andpromising immunosuppressantin neuromuscular diseasesArticle abstractThe authors report the use mycophenolate mofetil MM in the treatment of neuromuscular diseases.
Thirty-five patients were receiving other immunomodulating agents including corticosteroids 32 azathioprine 8 cyclosporine-A 4 methotrexate 3 and plasma exchange or IV immunoglobulin 10. Fifteen myasthenic patients had undergone thymectomy. Four patients received only MM. Patients received MM 1 g twice daily by mouth for an average of 12 months range 3 to 36 months. Improvement was defined as either 1 grade improvement in functional status9 as defined in table 2 or a reduction in the required dose of steroids by 10 mg every other day. Improvement by 1 grade in any of the individual parameters of the scalelisted in the columns in table 2 was considered to be improvement in the functional status. If patients were taking an alternative formulation of steroids prednisolone or deflazacort or daily dose treatments their equivalent every other day prednisone dose was calculated.For nonmyasthenic patients the functional status was determined using the functional impairment activities of daily living ADL or muscle strength Medical Research Council MRC grades 0 to 5 columns see table 2. The MRC score of the weakest muscle was used as an index for assessing the response to MM. Monthly monitoring of complete blood count was performed on all patients.
Overall 24 63% patients benefited from the treatment 22 with MG one with CIDP and one with IM measured either as improved functional status 20 or as a corticosteroid-sparing effect 17 see table 1. The mean time to improvement was 5 months range 2 to 12 months. Patients with MG comprised the largest group 32 and 69% of these patients improved while taking MM. This included three patients who were taking MM as their only immunosuppressive medication. The addition of MM allowed a reduction in the steroid dose requirement in 50% and improvement in the functional grade in 59% of the patients with MG figure A and B. Ten patients 31% who have been taking MM for an average of 8 months 3 to 17 months range have failed to show any benefit. These patients continue taking MM and are being followed up to evaluate a possible delayed response. Myasthenic patients who benefited from the treatment had been taking MM for a longer period of time mean 13 versus 8 months than those who did not benefit and the patients with a more favorable response had a diagnosis of MG established for a shorter time mean 7.5 versus 14 years than the patients who failed to show benefit with MM.Among the three patients with inflammatory myopathy IM one patient who had polymyositis improved.
Over two-thirds of the patients with MG showed improvement in functional status or were able to lower the dosage of corticosteroids. This included some patients who were taking MM as the only treatment and others who had remained refractory to conventional agents. Patients who did not respond in our study were treated on average for a shorter time period and had longer duration of disease than the responders. Although the drug waswell tolerated in other neuromuscular diseases as well we are not able to comment on its effectiveness in these conditions in view of the small numbers and the otherwise refractory patients included in this study.There has been only one previous report of the use of MM in MG in a 26-year-old woman who had MG for 12 years and improved rapidly while taking MM.10 In comparison to this case report the onset of action in our patients is rather delayed.
Vitamin D has important roles both in the autoimmune response and in skeletal muscles. We determined the levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin D 25OHD in patients with MG and in healthy subjects to determine whether vitamin D deficiency is present in MG and whether vitamin D supplementation has beneficial effects on fatigue. Methods Plasma levels of 25OHD were analyzed in 33 patients with MG 22 males mean age 58 years and in 50 healthy age- and sex-matched blood donors without vitamin D3 medication. MG composite score MGC assessed fatigue. 13 patients with MG without previous vitamin D3 supplementation were started on vitamin D3 supplementation cholecalciferol 800 IU/day with a followup examination after 2.510 months mean 6 months. Results Patients with MG without pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation N  16 had a mean MGC of 4.5 and lower plasma 25OHD levels mean 51  19 nM than healthy controls 69  21 nM P  0.017. Seventeen patients had pre-existing vitamin D3 supplementation because of corticosteroid treatment and their mean 25OHD was 79  22 nM and mean MGC was 5.5. In the 13 patients who received cholecalciferol 25OHD was overall increased at followup with 22% P  0.033 and MGC score improved with 38% P  0.05.
As vitamin D has beneficial effects on the autoimmune response and on fatigue score in patients with MG we suggest monitoring this parameter in patients with MG and supplementation with vitamin D3 when 25 OHD levels are low. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG is an autoimmune neuromuscular disorder in which autoantibodies are directed against muscle receptors in most cases the acetylcholine receptors AChRs 85% 1 or muscle-specific tyrosine kinase MuSK 10% 2. Thymus hyperplasia is common in AChR antibody-seropositive AChR patients with MG and thus T cells are considered to play an important role in the onset and course of the disease 3. The immune-regulatory effect of vitamin D is hypothesized to reside in an increased amount of regulatory T cells and this has been confirmed through recent studiesin healthy individuals 4. In mice with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis EAMG peripherally circulating regulatory T cells are important for the disease process through controlling self-reactive T cells and thus inhibition of the autoimmune response 5.Insufficient or deficient levels of vitamin D have been reported in a high percentage of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus SLE 6.
Statistical methods. The nonparametric MannWhitney test was used for assessment of mean values in continuous variables of independent samples including seasonal variations in 25 OHD values. Spearmans rank order correlations were applied to measure associations between two continuous variables. Related samples Wilcoxon signed rank test was applied to calculate differences in 25OHD level and MGC before and after therapeutic supplementation with vitamin D3. All analyses were performed using SPSS for Windows 16.0 SPSS Inc. Chicago IL USA and the significance level was set atP < 0.05. Results end. Clinical characteristics and treatment statusThirty-three patients were included in the study 22 males mean age 59  16 years and 11 females mean age 57  12 years. MG composite score in the entire patient group ranged from 0 to maximum 19 points mean 5  5 points and disease duration was 037 years mean 2012 The Authors European Journal of Neurology  2012 EFNS European Journal of Neurology9.9  9.3 years. The clinical characteristics and therapeutic regimen are displayed in Table 1. Three patients did not have any current MG medication and four patients had only symptomatic medication acetylcholinesterase inhibitors pyridostigmine Mestinon with a daily dose ranging from 240 mg to 480 mg.
The mean level of vitamin D before treatment in this group was 51  20 nM and after treatment the mean value of 25OHD was 62  12 nM. Vitamin D levels were significantly increased in 10 of 13 patients Table 2 with an overall increase of 21% P  0.033. The mean MGC score before treatment was 4.5 range 013 and at follow-up MGC score had a mean of 2.5 range 09 Table 2. Thus this resulted in an overall improvement reduction of MGC score in 5 patients unchanged best possible MGC MGC 0 in 3 patients and unchanged clinical status in 4 patients. A slight worsening was seen in 1 patient. The overall improvement in this group of MGC was 38% P  0.05. Amongst the 5 patients who improved their MGC score patients no. 7 10 14 and 15 had unchanged medication since at least one year. Patient no. 18 had started high-dose corticosteroids Deltison 2012 The Authors European Journal of Neurology  2012 EFNS European Journal of Neurology75 mg/day just before the initial examination and at the time of follow-up 3 months later he had Deltison in a dose of 50 mg/day. Discussion. This is the first report on vitamin D deficiency in patients with MG.
Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia. end. Steroids Only When Compelled. end. Henry J end. Kaminski MD Robert B. Daroff MD. M YASTHENIA gravisMG preferen-tially involves theocular muscles.1Ocular myasthenia manifests as weakness of the levator palpebrae superioris leading to ptosis or the extraocular muscles producing diplopia. The precise reasons for this predilection are poorly understood.23 As with all therapies for MG there are few well-controlled studies of treatments of ocular myasthenia.4 Immunosuppressive therapies in particular the corticosteroid prednisone are the mainstay of treatment for generalized MG that compromises an individuals daily activities. Prednisone is also commonly used for ocular myasthenia. However 4 factors should be considered prior to the use of steroids for patients with MG isolated to the ocular muscles 1 Could the patients symptoms improve with safer forms of therapy 2 Will steroid treatment lead to resolution of symptoms 3 Does the severity of the symptoms warrant the risk of steroid adverse effects 4 Do steroids reduce the chance of generalization We consider each of these questions and reach the conclusion that only the occasional case of ocular myasthenia should be treate.
Although sleep disturbance weight gain and altered appearance are usually well tolerated more serious complications occur. Sommer et al6 used steroids to treat 45 patients with ocular myasthenia more than a quarter of these patients had moderate adverse effects and 2 developed diabetes or psychosis. In all likelihood the reported frequency of steroid adverse effects is underestimated in studies of MG. For example osteoporosis is accelerated in all patients receiving doses of pred-nisone commonly used for ocular myasthenia and bone loss is greatest in the first 6 months of therapy.14 Steroids may exacerbate preclinical hypertension cataract formation and glucose intolerance. Therefore even a short 3- to 6-month course of prednisone treatment is not risk free.Studies of patients with ocular myasthenia consistently show that the risk of generalization is highest in the first 2 years of onset and decreases substantially thereafter.7910 The rate of generalization varies among series but the best estimate is that approximately 40% to 50% of cases will remain purely ocular.9 In studies prior to steroid use or in which steroids were not used 11% to 30% of cases did not gen.
Our approach to the patient with ocular myasthenia is to explain the potential evolution of the disease and treatment options including their complications. We institute nonpharmacological treatments and cholinesterase inhibitors and in most patients these provide satisfactory relief of symptoms. In about half of the patients with newly diagnosed ocular myasthenia generalized weakness will prompt institution of immunosuppressive therapies. Only in limited situations are we compelled to use steroids for isolated ocular muscle weakness10 and in these cases it is always the patient who demands the treatment. Young women are often so cosmetically distressed by their ptosis or strabismus that we are convinced to start steroid therapy. Other indications are bilateral ptosis unsatisfactorily relieved by crutches or tape and bilateral severe ophthalmoplegia. Bilateral ptosis precludes useful vision. Severe ophthalmoplegia necessitates head thrusts to achieve vi-sual refixations and seriously impedes quality of life.
In this report we describe a patient with MG who was scheduled for prostate surgery. He developed respiratory depression after spinal anesthesia which was rapidly recovered by steroids. Case presentation. The patient written informed consent was an 83-year-old man height 152cm weight 46kg. Since the age of 81 he required indwelling catheters for urinary retention due toprostatic hyperplasia and underwent transurethral Holmium laser enucleation of the prostate HoLEP. Medical history. He was diagnosed at our hospital with MG at the age of 81 based on the presence of hoarseness dysphagia diplopia and ptosis. The clinical features improved after treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg pulse steroid therapy and tacrolimus and since then was followed up at the Outpatient Department. At the age of 82 he was admitted for aspiration pneumonia which was likely caused by dysphagia and was subsequently treated with IVIg and pulse steroid therapy. He was prescribed 5mg of prednisolone after discharge but he continued to exhibit bilateral ptosis and complain of dysphagia. Although he enjoyed independent living and was able to walk unsupported at home he used a wheelchair whenever he went outside.
The present report adds to the literature supporting to the use of neuromuscular blockade monitoring as mandatory for surgeries in patients with MG especially in cases where NMB is required.Ta b le1 Su m m ar y an d timin g ofpe riope ra tiv e ev entsTi m e1 50PM 2 00PM 2 05PM 3 00PM 3 50PM 4 15PM 4 25PM 4 35PM 4 40PM 4 50PM 5 00PMEv ent A w ak e in tu ba tion Post in tu ba tion Be gi nnin g of su rg er yIn tr ao pera tiv epe riod En d ofsu rg er yEs pont an eo us br ea th in gIn ha le d ag en t. tu rn ed of fA w ak in g an d ex tu ba tion Re sp ira to ry di sc om fo rtRe sp ira to ry di sc om fo rtN o re sp ira to ry di sc om fo rtTO F C ount Nre sp onse sor TOF Ra tio% 10 0% 0 re sp onse 3 re sp onse s1 re sp onse 45 %50 %60 %60 %60 %10 0%Pr opof olm g 10 0    Ke ta m in e mg  50    Fe nt an yl mcg 25 025 015 010 0   Ro cu ro ni umm g 20 5   Se vo flu ra neex pi ra ct or yfra ct io n %  1. 61 end. 61 end. 61 end. 61 end.
Conclusions Our study showed that tacrolimus would be an effective immunosuppressant as an initial therapeutic agent in patients with MG in addition it showed tolerable safety profiles during the 12-month follow-up evaluation. ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT. Accepted Manuscript. end. A multicenter prospective observational study on the safety and efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with myasthenia gravis. Suk-Won Ahn In Soo Joo Byung-Jo Kim Jung-Joon Sung SaYoun Kang Jeeyoung Oh Yang-Ki Minn Bum Chun Suh SunYoung Oh Yoon-Ho Hong Tai-Seung Nam Jung Im Seok Young-Eun Park Ha Young Shin Eun-Bin Cho Je-Young Shin Hung Youl Seok Jin-Sung Park Ju-Hong Min Jin-Myoung Seok Byoung-Joon Kim PII S0022-510X1730367-2 DOI doi 10.1016/j.jns.2017.05.060 Reference JNS 15367 To appear in Journal of the Neurological Sciences Received date 2 March 2017 Revised date 2 May 2017 Accepted date 29 May 2017Please cite thi.
combined with the equipoise among neuromuscular specialists provide justification for an RCT to evaluate the safety and efficacy of prednisone in the treatment of OMG.14. METHODS end. Study Design. The Efficacy of Prednisone in the Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia EPITOME25 trial was a randomized double-blind parallel-groupAdditional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article.Abbreviations AE adverse event CMSU Clinical Material Services Unit DEXA dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry DSMB Data Safety Monitoring Board EPITOME Efficacy of Prednisone for Treatment of Ocular Myasthenia GMG generalized myasthenia gravis MG-QOL-15 15-item Myasthenia Gravis Quality-of-Lif. e Scale MMS minimal manifestation status MSG muscle study group QMG quantitative myasthenia gravis score NEIVFQ-25 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire OMG ocular myasthenia gravis RCT randomized controlled trial SAE serious adverse event Key words clinical trial ocular myasthenia prednisone neuromuscular steroids See Appendix for listing of MSG participants. This study was supported by FDA Orphan Products Development R01FD003710 to M.B.
One hundred forty-five patients were approached for participation 23 declined toSteroids for Ocular Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE March 2016 365participate and 107 failed pre-screening. Among the remaining 15 patients assessed for eligibility 11 were randomized 6 55% to prednisone and 5 45% to placebo. One of the participants randomized to placebo withdrew consent before receipt of study drug but was included in the analysis in accordance with the intention-to-treat principle. One participant stopped treatment at Week 12 due to early trial closure. The remaining 9 participants completed 16 weeks of double-blind treatment Fig. 2 end. There were no substantial differences between treatment groups with respect to baseline characteristics Table 1.Efficacy. No subjects progressed to GMG or discontinued study drug due to toxicity. All 5 placebotreated subjects 100% had treatment failure based on inability to achieve sustained MMS 95% CI 48%100% compared with 1 of 6 subjects 17% in the prednisone-treated group 95% CI 0%64% P 5 0.02 Fisher exact test. The 1 prednisonetreated patient who did not achieve MMS waswithdrawn at Week 16 due to early trial closure. The prednisone-treated subjects achieved MMS at Weeks 4 n 5 1 8 n 5 2 12 n 5 1 and 16 n 5 1.
The median prednisone dose at the time of sustained MMS was 15 mg/day range 1525 mg/ day. Per protocol study subjects who achieved sustained MMS successfully tapered their prednisone to a median dose of 10 mg/day range 1015 mg/ day without relapse of symptoms. Observed mean responses on the secondary outcome measures were better in the prednisone group than in the placebo group but the group differences were not statistically significant Table 2. Individual subject responses are displayed in Figure 3.Open-Label High-Dose Prednisone. Three of 5 placebo-treated participants switched to high-dose prednisone 60 mg/day with rapid taper. Sustained MMS was attained in 2 subjects within 4 and 8 weeks respectively. Of the other 2 participants randomized to receive placebo 1 never receivedstudy drug and the other was withdrawn early due to study closure.Safety. Thirty adverse events AEs were reported during the double-blind phase of the study 8 of which led to a reduction in dose of study medication Table 3. Twenty-two of these AEs occurred in the prednisone group and 8 occurred in the placebo group. Four SAEs were reported during the course of the trial 3 in the placebo group and 1 in the prednisone group but none were judged to be related to study medication.
1 0 Edema 0 2 Hematoma 0 1 Myalgia/cramping 0 1 Eye pain poked in eye 1 0 Total 8 22Indicates that AE led to a reduction in dose of study medication. Dose was reduced because of diarrhea in only 1 of the 2 patients in the prednisone group.Steroids for Ocular Myasthenia MUSCLE  NERVE March 2016 367recruitment appears to be a common problem in MG RCTs as many studies have terminated prematurely for this reason.31Notwithstanding the small number of participants enrolled in this trial the primary efficacy analysis demonstrated a clinically and statistically significant benefit of prednisone compared with placebo. Five of 6 participants 83% in the prednisone group achieved the primary endpoint of sustained MMS at a median of 14 weeks on a median prednisone dose of 15 mg/day compared with 0 of 5 participants in the placebo group. The observation that none of the patients in the placebo group achieved MMS may at least in part be a function of an important element of study designthat all patients were initially treated with pyridostigmine and that those who responded were not randomized to receive study drug i.e. those patients who responded to pyridostigmine alone were not randomized.
Nonpharmacologic testing. Nonpharmacologic tests can be easily performed in clinic and are helpful in raising the suspicion of myasthenia gravis. Among these the ice pack test has been reported to have both good sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis 1214. This test is performed by having the patient place an ice pack over the ptotic eyelid for 25 min. An improvement of 2 mm or more of the ptosis is considered a positive result 12. Although the mechanism is not fully understood it is thought that cooling improves the synaptic transmission at the endplate 15 and has an effect on the excitationcontraction coupling in the muscle 16 . It has been shown that the improvement in ptosis is not simply a result of rest as the ice test improves the ptosis significantly more than rest alone 1718. Alternatives to the ice pack test include the rest test which is performed by having the patient close the eyes for 2 min and the sleep test for which the patient is maintained eyes closed in a dark room for 30 min. Improvement of the ptosis and/or ophthalmoparesis is considered a positive result. Edrophonium testing. Edrophonium is a short-acting acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that works by increasing the amount of available acetylcholine in the synaptic cleft.
Patients with LRP4 antibody positivity tend to have a milder disease course compared with AChR or anti-MuSKpositive patients and can present with isolated ocular symptoms 3134. LRP4 should therefore be tested in patients who carry a suspicion of OMG if the AChR antibodies are negative.Muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodiesMuSK-antibodies are present in 110% of all patients with myasthenia gravis 3536  and are more prevalent in women and patients of Mediterranean decent 2831. Among patients with generalized myasthenia gravis and negative serologies to AChR antibodies 2040% will be positive for antiMuSK antibodies 3237. MuSK antibodies bind to an extracellular domain and cause a reduction in the postsynaptic density of AChR 3 . Isolated ocular involvement is rare in patients with anti-MUSK antibodies which tend to have severe systemic weakness and be more symptomatic of bulbar and facial muscle weakness 38 . A retrospective review of 82 patients with positive anti-MuSK antibody showed that 3/82 patients presented with isolated ocular involvement. Anti-MuSK-positive patients with generalized myasthenia gravis had a similar incidence of ophthalmic findings compared with AChR-positive patients but involvement of the extraocular muscles seemed to be milder and less frequent 39.
In myasthenia gravis there is a high variability in the time required for the endplate potential to reach the threshold at the NMJ therefore causing an increase in jitter 24 . Rakocevic et al. have shown a significant correlation between abnormal jitter of orbicularis oculi muscles and response to myasthenic treatment. In this study abnormal jitter had a 100% sensitivity and 85.7% specificity for response to myasthenic therapy 43 . In addition to being a useful diagnostic tool SFEMG also seems to be able to predict the severity of the disease 44 . On the contrary SFEMG is not universally available and in many neurophysiology labs RNS studies are the primary electrophysiologic studies. The sensitivity of the latter is highest for facial or proximal muscles. Therapeutic trial. Although it is ideal to confirm the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis before starting any treatment there are uncommon situations in which the clinical suspicion persists despite negative serologic and electrophysiologic testing. In this context a480 www.co-ophthalmology.com Volume 29 Number 6 November 2018Copyright  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved.therapeutic trial can help in making a more definitive diagnosis.
J Neurol 2009 25613141320. 53 end. Kaminski HJ Daroff RB. Treatment of ocular myasthenia steroids only when compelled. Arch Neurol 2000 57752753. 54 end. Kupersmith MJ. Does early treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis with prednisone reduce progression to generalized disease J Neurol Sci 2004 217123124. 55 end. Mee J Paine M Byrne E et al. Immunotherapy of ocular myasthenia gravis reduces conversion to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neuroophthalmol 2003 23251255. 56 end. Monsul NT Patwa HS Knorr AM et al. The effect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Sci 2004 217131133. 57 end. Weinberg DH Rizzo JF Hayes MT et al. Ocular myasthenia gravis predictive value of single-fiber electromyography. Muscle Nerve 1999 2212221227. 58 end. Sanders DB Wolfe GI Narayanaswamy P et al. Developing treatment guidelines for myasthenia gravis. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2018 141295101. 59 end. Sanders DB Wolfe GI Benetar M et al. International consensus guidance for management of myasthenia gravis executive summary. Neurology 2016 87419425. 60 end. Rozsa C Lovas G Fornadi L et al. Safety of long-term combined immunosuppressive treatment in myasthenia gravis  analysis of adverse effects of 163 patients. Eur J Neurol 2006 13947952.61.
A randomized double-blind trial of prednisolone alone or with azathioprine In myasthenia gravis. Neurology 1998 5017781783. 62 end. Burns TM Sanders TB Kaminski HJ et al. Two steps forward one step back mycophenolate mofetil treatment for myasthenia gravis in the United States. Muscle Nerve 2015 51635637. 63 end. Chan JW end. Mycophenolate mofetil for ocular myasthenia. J Neurol 2008 255510513. 64 end. Sanders DB Hart IK Mantagazza R et al. An international phase III randomized trial of mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 2008 71400406. 65 end. Norwood F Dhanjal M Hill M et al. Myasthenia in pregnancy best practice and guidelines from a U.K. multispecialty working group. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2014 85538543. 66 end. Ferrero S Pretta S Nicoletti A et al. Myasthenia gravis management issues during pregnancy. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol 2005 121129138. 67 end. Benatar M Kaminski H. Medical and surgical treatment for ocular myasthenia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2006 2CD005081. 68 end. Wolfe GI Kaminski HJ Aban IB et al. Randomized trial of thymectomy in myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 2016 375511522.
Of all MG patients 85% present with ocular signs and symptoms the most common being fluctuating ptosis 1 2. Other symptoms include strabismus which can clinically mimic an external ophthalmoplegia or a single or multiple motor cranial nerve palsy. About 17% of all MG patients only have ocular symptoms. The majority of MG patients however develop generalized muscle weakness mostly within 2 years after start of the first symptoms of MG. Treatment options for MG consist of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and in more severe cases immunosuppressive drugs and biologicals rituximab. Surgical treatment thymectomy has a beneficial effect in reducing symptoms and using less steroids 3.Case PresentationA 57-year-old healthy male presented at the Department of Ophthalmology with fluctuating vertical diplopia. Orthoptic examination demonstrated weakness of the inferior rectus muscle. Ocular examination showed an inborn tendency towards proptosis. There were no signs of ptosis. The diagnosis of MG was established by the presence of acetylcholine receptor auto-antibodies. Single-fiber electromyography of the frontal muscle and computed tomography of the brain were normal.
Therefore topical prostaglandin treatment was initiated to control the intraocular pressure. The patient had gained about 30 kg and had developed a significant cushingoid facies over the past 6 months Fig. 1 end. He was unable to climb stairs or carry a bucket of water due to steroid myopathy in conjunction with generalized MG. As the treatment of his disease was not according to international recommendations he was referred to a different neurologist M.D.B. who tapered methylprednisolone and pyridostigmine and added 3 mg of tacrolimus. This resulted in a quick remission. Just 10 weeks after the introduction of tacrolimus to the treatment the methylprednisolone could already be tapered to 4 mg. Two months later however a new subluxation occurred despite optimal medical treatment. To avoid new subluxations lateral tarsorrhaphy was performed.Case Rep Ophthalmol 202011534539DOI 10.1159/000509527  2020 The Authors. Published by S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copDam et al. Globe Subluxation following Long-Term High-Dose Steroid Treatment for Myasthenia Gravis536DiscussionSpontaneous globe luxation is a rare condition which occurs when the equator of the globe protrudes anterior to the orbital rim.
2 both induced by long-term high-dose steroid therapy in an anatomically predisposed orbit.Steroids are part of the first-line treatment for MG however a high dose of 64 mg is often not necessary for ocular MG. Moreover the continuation of a dose of 58 mg or more for more than 6 months is not recommended.Side effects like myopathy are commonly seen with steroid treatment. Careful follow-up is necessary to adjust treatment in case of serious side effect. Extra care and caution must be taken in anatomically predisposed patients with proptosis. In case of prolonged need for treatment other forms of immunosuppressive therapy e.g. azathioprine tacrolimus should be considered.Statement of EthicsWritten informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this report and any presented images.Conflict of Interest StatementThe authors have no conflict of interest to declare.Funding SourcesNone.Case Rep Ophthalmol 202011534539DOI 10.1159/000509527  2020 The Authors. Published by S. Karger AG Basel www.karger.com/copDam et al. Globe Subluxation following Long-Term High-Dose Steroid Treatment for Myasthenia Gravis537Author ContributionsJ.D. first draft of paper and final revision. J.D end. and F.M. co-writing of manuscript literature search reviewing and editing. C.C end.
His lumbar spine bone mineral density was decreased L24 0.382 g/cm2 T-score 2.5 Z-score 2.5. He was started on oral calcium/vitamin D3 and alendronate Fosamax 70-mg tablets once a week for osteoporosis. He complained of muscle weakness in the lower and upper extremities on the days that he took alendronate. He also complained of so extreme fatigue that he could not work on these days. He began taking alendronate on weekends when he was on leave. Exacerbation of the myasthenic symptoms lasted no more than a day. He had symptoms on each use of alendronate for a year. He took alendronate to show the signs before coming to our clinic. On presentation to our clinic S. Kesikburun  . Gzelkk A end. K end. Tan Department of PMR Turkish Armed Forces Rehabilitation Center Glhane Military Medical Academy Ankara Turkey e-mail serdarkbgmail.com S. Alay Department of Neurology Glhane Military Medical Academy Ankara Turkey F. Yavuz The Clinics of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Military Hospital of Etimesgut Ankara Turkeymuscle weakness was elicited in the proximal muscles of the upper and lower extremities decrease in muscle power to 3/5 over both sides of shoulder and hip girdle muscles. There was also a slight upper lid ptosis on the left side. Multiple routine blood tests were normal.
Potential complications include MG worsening during the first 2 weeks of therapy asepticbonenecrosishyperglycemiahypertensionosteoporosis immune compromise psychological disturbance growth retardation inchildren cataracts glaucoma proximalmyopathyanddysmorphic soft tissue changes.13 Complications are to be identified and treated early they are best prevented. Ancillary treatmentssuchaselandronatetoprevent osteoporosis are useful. Most steroid complications correlate with cumulativedose.Animportantmeans to prevent complications in patients receiving steroids is to limit the totalsteroiddose.Thismaybeachieved and relapses kept to a minimum by dose reduction in a slow monitored fashionoverseveralmonths.Alternateday therapy reduces hypothalamicpituitary suppression. Additional strategies that may limit the need for long-term high steroid doses include thymectomy early in the course of the disease as well as azathioprine during the period of steroid dose reduction.1314The differential diagnosis of ocular MG includes oculopharyngeal dystrophy mitochondrial disorders congenital MG and other NMJ disorders oculomotor neuropathies and brainstem lesions.315 In autoimmune ocular MG the usual laboratory findings that support a diagnosis of MG may be absent. Se- end.
University of California Davis.CONTROVERSIES IN NEUROLOGYARCH NEUROL / VOL 57 MAY 2000 WWW.ARCHNEUROL.COM 7502000 American Medical Association. All rights reserved. Downloaded From http//archneur.jamanetwork.com/ by a University of St. Andrews Library User on 04/29/2015rum acetylcholine receptor AChR antibodies are undetectable in 30% to 45% of cases716 and repetitive decremental study results are normal in 50%.7 Single-fiber electromyography often helps to confirm the diagnosis of ocular MG.717 In vitro recording of intact isolated muscle fibersprovides increasedsensitivity and is occasionally necessary.18 The pathology clinical course and response to immune treatment of patients with acquired MG without detectable AChR antib. odies ie seronegative MG parallels that of patients with seropositive MG suggesting that seronegative MG is also autoimmune. Seropositivity is more likely to be detected by testing for modulating and blocking antibodies in addition to binding ones16 and by employing an assay that detects AChRs isolated from human ocular muscles.19 It is also possible that antigens other than AChRs are immune targets in these patients.
An improvement induced by PE may be used as a predictor of those patients who are likely to benefit from steroids. High-dose intravenous gamma globulin is also likely to provide short-term benefit and is often used in lieu of PE.In conclusion immune treatments including corticosteroids facilitate the management of many patients disabled with ocular myas-thenia as well as those who demonstrate subclinical evidence of generalized MG. In addition immune treatment in patients with mild disease seems to protect patients from developing more severe generalized disease. Each patient however needs to be evaluated on an individual and continual basis. Thymectomy carries less potential for adverse effects than corticosteroids and consequently should be the first line of immune treatment in ocular MG. Children and the elderly are particularly susceptible to developing corticosteroid complications. Thymectomy PE and intravenous gamma globulin represent alternative immune treatments to corticosteroids in these high-risk patients.Accepted for publication October 20 1999.Corresponding author Mark A. Agius MD FRCP C Glasg Department of Neurology University of California Davis 1515 Newton Ct Room 510 Davis CA 95616-4859 e-mail maagiusucdavis.edu.REFERENCES1. Osserman KE.
Invest Ophthalmol. 19676277-287. 2 end. Grob D Brunner NG Namba T. The natural course of myasthenia gravis and effect of therapeutic measures. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1981377652-669. 3 end. Sergott RC. Ocular myasthenia. In Lisak RP ed. Handbook of Myasthenia Gravis and Myasthenic Syndromes. New York NY Marcel Dekker Inc 199421-32. 4 end. Fischer KC Schwartzman RJ. Oral corticosteroids in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis. Neurology. 197424795-798. 5 end. Kupersmith MJ Moster M Bhuiyan S Warren F Weinberg H. Beneficial effects of corticosteroids on ocular myasthenia gravis. Arch Neurol. 1996 53802-804.6. Wilkins KB Bulkley GB. Thymectomy in the integrated management of myasthenia gravis. Adv Surg end. 199932105-133. 7 end. Sanders DB. Electrophysiological and pharmacological tests in neuromuscular junction disorders. In Lisak RP ed. Handbook of Myasthenia Gravis and Myasthenic Syndromes. New York NY Marcel Dekker Inc 1994103-108. 8 end. Simpson JA Westenberg MR Magee HR. Myasthenia gravis an analysis of 295 cases. Acta Neurol Scand. 196642suppl 237-27. 9 end. Grob D Arsura EL Brunner NG Namba T. The course of myasthenia gravis and therapies affecting outcome. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1987505 472-499. 10 end. Sommer N Sigg B Melms A et al.
J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 199762156-162. 11 end. KaminskiHJ.Acetylcholinereceptorepitopes inocularmyasthenia.AnnNYAcadSci.1998841309-319. 12 end. Lindsey JW. Characteristics of initial and reinduced experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and multiple sclerosis. Crit Rev Clin Lab Sci. 1995 32121-182. 13 end. Richman DP Agius MA. Myasthenia gravis pathogenesis and treatment. Semin Neurol. 199414 106-110. 14 end. Chaudry V Cornblath DR. Immunosuppressive therapy for myasthenia gravis. In Lisak RP ed. Handbook of Myasthenia Gravis and Myasthenic Syndromes. New York NY Marcel Dekker Inc 1994341-374. 15 end. Lee AG end. Ocular myasthenia gravis. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1996639-41. 16 end. Howard FM Lennon VA Finley J Matsumoto J Elveback LR. Clinical correlations of antibodies that bind block or modulate human acetylcholine receptors in myasthenia gravis. Ann N Y Acad Sci.1987505526-538. 17 end. Rivero A Crovetto L Lopez L Maselli R Nogues M. Single-fiber electromyography of extraocular muscles a sensitive method for the diagnosis of ocular myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve. 1995 18943-947. 18 end. Maselli RA. Pathophysiology of myasthenia gravis and Lambert-Eaton syndrome. Neurol Clin. 1994 12285-303. 19 end. Vincent A Newsom-Davis J.
Results Significantly decreased QMG MMT MG-ADL and MG-QOL15 were observed at all time points during the tacrolimus treatment. The dosage of prednisone also reduced at the end of the observation period with only 6 adverse events reported. The immunological impact of tacrolimus was revealed by reduced percentages of Tfh Breg CD19BAFF-R B cells and increased percentages of Treg cells as well as down-regulated expression of IL-2 IL-4 IL-10 and IL-13 mRNA levels in PBMCs during the treatment. Conclusion Our study indicated the clinical efficacy of tacrolimus in patients with refractory generalized MG. The underlying immunoregulatory mechanism of tacrolimus may involve alterations in the phenotypes of peripheral blood lymphocytes and Th1/Th2-related cytokine expression of PBMCs. 2020 S end. Karger AG BaselHui Wua and Zhangyang Wang contributed equally to this work.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AMWu/Wang/Xi/Liu/Yan/Song/Wang/Jing/ Wang/Zhao Eur Neurol2 DOI 10.1159/000510396IntroductionMyasthenia gravis MG is a chronic autoimmune disorder caused by autoantibodies directed toward neuromuscular junction proteins including the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AChR muscle-specific tyrosine kinase or low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4.
In the present study we aimed to investigate the clinical efficacy of tacrolimus using multiple clinical scales and analyze its immunoregulatory impact by examining the resulting proportion of peripheral T-Cell/B-Cell phenotypes and mRNA expression of crucial cytokine genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs.Materials and MethodsPatients This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and received ethical approval from the Medical Ethics Committee of Jingan Distr. ict Center Hospital of Shanghai Fudan University Ethics reference number 2016-21. All patients provided their written informed consent.Twenty-four refractory generalized MG patients were enrolled in the study between October 2017 and November 2018 from the hospital. Among these patients 18 of them were positive for the AChR antibody while the other 6 patients were seronegative including muscle-specific tyrosine kinase and lipoprotein receptorrelated protein 4 antibody. Thymoma was found in 8 patients. All patients had a confirmed diagnosis of generalized MG Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA class 2 3 or 4 and met refractory MG criteria 9 10.
Additionally the population of Treg cells was in an upward trend at month 6 and this change was statistically significant p  0.034 Fig.2d.Tacrolimus significantly decreased the percentages of CD19 B cells at months 6 and 12 p  0.007 p < 0.001. And the proportion of CD19BAFF-R B cells in CD19 B cells at week 6 was statistically reduced by over 34.71% p  0.003 and further diminished at month 12 p < 0.001 Fig. 2e. Simultaneously the ratios of Breg cells CD19CD5CD1d B cells were also declined after 12 months of tacrolimus treatment 1.38  1.04 vs. 0.70  0.60 p  0.015 Fig.2f g. Online suppl. Figure 1 presents the dot plot representation of flow cytometry data of patient 11 at baseline and at month 6.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AM. Tacrolimus in Treating Refractory. Generalized MG5Eur Neurol DOI 10.1159/000510396Table 3.
The study was approved by Medical Ethics Committee of Jingan District Center Hospital of Shanghai Fudan University Ethics reference number 2016-21.Conflict of Interest StatementThe authors have no conflicts of interest.Funding SourcesThis work was supported by financial grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 81870988 the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning No. 20164Y0238 and the National Key Research and Development Program of China No. 2016YFC0901504.Author ContributionsH.W. and Z.W end. wrote and reviewed the draft. Y.W end. and C.Z end. designed and supervised the study. J.X. J.L. C.Y. J.S. L.W. and S.J. collected the data. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.D ownl oade dby U NS WL ibra ry14 9.17 1.67 .148 -9 /19/ 2020 84 513 AMWu/Wang/Xi/Liu/Yan/Song/Wang/Jing/ Wang/Zhao Eur Neurol8 DOI 10.1159/000510396References1 Gilhus NE. Myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med. 2016 Dec 29 37526 257081. 2 OGrady JG Burroughs A Hardy P Elbourne D Truesdale A. Tacrolimus versus microemulsified ciclosporin in liver transplantation the TMC randomised controlled trial. Lancet end. 2002 Oct 12 3609340 111925. 3 Liu J Farmer JD Jr Lane WS Friedman J Weissman I Schreiber SL.
Cell end. 1991 Aug 23 664 80715. 4 Schreiber SL Crabtree GR. The mechanism of action of cyclosporin A and FK506. Immunol Today. 1992 Apr 134 13642. 5 Ponseti JM Gamez J Azem J Fort JM LpezCano M Vilallonga R et al. Post-thymectomy combined treatment of prednisone and tacrolimus versus prednisone alone for consolidation of complete stable remission in patients with myasthenia gravis a non-randomized non-controlled study. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Jun 236 126978. 6 Yoshikawa H Kiuchi T Saida T Takamori M. Randomised double-blind placebo-controlled study of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2011 Sep 829 9707. 7 Wang L Zhang S Xi J Li W Zhou L Lu J et al. Efficacy and safety of tacrolimus for myasthenia gravis a systematic review and metaanalysis. J Neurol end. 2017 Nov 26411 2191 200.8 Zhou L Liu W Li W Li H Zhang X Shang H et al. Tacrolimus in the treatment of myasthenia gravis in patients with an inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study conducted in China. Ther Adv Neurol Disord. 2017 Sep 109 31525. 9 Jing S Song Y Song J Pang S Quan C Zhou L et al. Responsiveness to low-dose rituximab in refractory generalized myasthenia gravis. J Neuroimmunol. 2017 Oct 15 311 1421. 10 Silvestri NJ Wolfe GI.
By contrast tacrolimus at 2 mg/day resulted in complete remission of the MG which made it possible to reduce the dose of prednisolone. This is a rare report of the use of tacrolimus as an effective treatment for patients with intractable childhood-onset MG. 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. We used tacrolimus to successfully treat a patient with childhood-onset oropharyngeal myasthenia gravis MG. A girl 2 years 5 months old with oropharyngeal MG responded partially to treatment including pyridostigmine bromide intravenous immunoglobulin and prednisolone 2 mg/kg/day for 7 weeks but this resulted in worsening of her eye symptoms. By contrast tacrolimus at 2 mg/day resulted in complete remission of the MG which made it possible to reduce the dose of prednisolone. This is a rare report of the use of tacrolimus as an effective treatment for patients with intractable childhood-onset MG. 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Childhood Immunosuppressant Myasthenia gravis Tacrolimus. 1 end. Introduction. Myasthenia gravis MG a chronic T-cell-dependent autoimmune disorder of neuromuscular transmission is induced by the production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor AchR.
4 Evoli A Schino CD Marsili F Punzi C. Successful treatment of myasthenia gravis with tacrolimus. Muscle Nerve 2002251114. 5 Kino T Hatanaka H Miyata S Inamura N Nishiyama M Yajima T et al. FK-506 a novel immunosuppressant isolated from a Streptomyces. 1 end. Fermentation isolation and physico-chemical and biological characteristics. J Antibiot 198740124955. 6 Tocci MJ Matkovich DA Collier KA Kwok P Dumont F Lin S et al. The immunosuppressant FK506 selectively inhibits expression of early T cell activation genes. J Immunol 198914371826. 7 Laskow DA Vincenti F Neylan J Mendez R Matas AJ. An open-label concentration-ranging trial of FK506 in primary kidney transplantation a report of the United States Multicenter FK506 Kidney Transplant Group. Transplantation 1996629005. 8 Shibata M Suzuki Y Takenaka M Yamada T Hattori T Kinpara Y et al. A case of intractable childhood-onset systemic myasthenia gravis that was successfully treated with tacrolimus. Shounika Rinsho in Japanese 200356193942. 9 Takamori M Motomura M Kawaguchi N Nemoto Y Hattori T Yoshikawa H et al. Anti-ryanodine receptor antibodies and FK506 in myasthenia gravis. Neurology 20046218946. 10 Davies TH Ning YM Sanchez ER.
Iron saturation was low in 37 patients 78.8%. Of these 37 patients only 10 27.0% had anemia. Our data demonstrate abnormally low serum iron 62.5% and iron saturation 77.1% levels in relatively large proportions of patients with RLS. Anemia 21.2% and reduced ferritin 25.0% were found in comparatively smaller proportions. These findings confirm the relation between abnormalities of serum iron status and RLS. Although reduced serum iron and reduced serum iron saturation are characteristic of iron deficiency these findings are not specific for the cndi t ion . Ferritin is considered to be a more reliable indicator of iron defiiency.. These observations raise an important question regarding the basis for the abnormalities of serum iron status we detected. It is possible that the reduced serum iron and iron saturation measurements in RLS are not indicative of simple iron deficiency but reflect some more pervasive and as yet unidentified defect of iron transport or metabolism. Iron is a component of the dopamine D-2 and p-opiate r e c e p t o r    . both of which are RLS treatment targets suggesting a potential mechanism by which a defect in iron metabolism may be involved in the generation of RLS.
A subsequent intravenous edrophonium test 10 mg was unequivocally positive producing marked improvement in right hand strength but having no effect on left upper limb weakness. Assay for AChRAb remained negative. A diagnosis of generalized myasthenia was made.The patient was treated with a gradually increasing dose of prednisolone to a maximum of 40 mg alt diem with subsequent improvement in hand muscle strength after 2 months finger extension and abduction were graded at 4-/5 and at 3 months 415. This improvement has been maintained during a further 6 months despite gradual reduction of the prednisolone dose to 5 mg alt diem.Nations et a1. retrospectively reviewed 234 patients with myasthenia and found that 3% had distal myasthenia defined as distal extremity weakness exceeding proximal weakness by at least one MRC grade. Hand weakness particularly involved the finger extensors and was the sole presenting feature in two patients and developed later in three others l month to 43 years after the initial diagnosis of myasthenia. These patients age range 14 to 43 all had raised AChRAb levels and ocular or bulbar weakness in addition to hand weakness. No patient had a thymoma and six improved with immunosuppression.
Clinical classification according to MGFA 18 was also determined based on the worst condition of each patient. Serum titers of AChR-Ab were estimated by radioimmunoassay using 125 I- - bungarotoxin and levels 1 0.5 n M were regarded as positive.In MG the rate of patients achieving remission with freedom from treatment is only 720% 7 8  and has not improved greatly compared with the 1940s 8  therefore large differences were not expected regardless of therapy. Complete stable remission CSR according to the MGFA postintervention status classification 18 is probably inappropriate as a practical landmark to compare the effects of treatments. We therefore set a practical goal of achieving MM or a better status with prednisolone   5 mg/day MM with prednisolone   5 mg/day given that complications of long-term prednisolone emerge at 7.510 mg/day 9 10 .
During the 2nd year 45.5% of patients 20/44 required hospitalization to receive EAT mean number of admissions 0.7 range 02 mean duration of hospitalization 7.1 days. During the 3rd year 27.6% of patients 8/29 required hospitalization mean number of admissions 0.4 range 02 mean duration of hospitalization 6.8 days. The mean number of plasmapheresisHMP treatments required was 4.1 range 114 during the 1st year decreasing to 1.6 range 07 for the 2nd year p  0.0001 Wilcoxon signed-ranks test compared with 1st year and decreasing further to 0.7 range 06 for the 3rd year p  0.01 Wilcoxon signed-ranks test compared with the 2nd year in the EAT group  table2 . Among the highdose prednisolone group plasmapheresis was performed in a setting of myasthenic crisis for only 4 patients range 26 times during the 1st year and was not performed thereafter  table2 . The frequency of treatment with calcineurin inhibitors taken together with oral prednisolone did not differ between groups  table2 . p < 0.001  2 test between the EAT group and high-dose prednisolone group.
Cleveland ISAO Press 1983 pp 719722.20 Shibuya N Sato T Osame M Takegami T Doi S Kawanami S Immunoadsorption therapy for myasthenia gravis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1994 57 578581. 21 Tindall RSA Rollins JA Phillips JT Greenlee RG Wells L Belendiuk G Preliminary results of a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial of cyclosporine in myasthenia gravis. N Engl J Med 1987 316 719 724. 22 Nagane Y Suzuki S Suzuki N Utsugisawa K Factors associated with response to calcineurin inhibitors in myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2010 41 212218. 23 Slesak G Melms A Gerneth F Sommer N Weissert R Dichgans J Late-onset myasthenia gravis. Follow-up of 113 patients diagnosed after age 60. Ann NY Acad Sci 1998 841 777780. 24 Zinman L Ng E Bril V IV immunoglobulin in patients with myasthenia gravis a randomized controlled trial. Neurology 2007 68 837841.D ownl oade dby U CS FL ibra ry CK M169. 230 end. 243 end. 252 -4/ 9/20 151 003 40 AM. International consensus guidance for management of myasthenia gravis. Objective To develop formal consensus-based guidance for the management of myasthenia gravis MG. Methods In October 2013 theMyasthenia Gravis Foundation of America appointed a Task Force to develop treatment guidance for MG and a panel of 15 international experts was convened.
2 end. Clinical examination is assumed to have been performed by physicians skilled in the evaluation of neuromuscular disease. 3 end. The MGFA Clinical Classification including remission refers to the state of the patient at the time of evaluation.A formal systematic review of the literature was not performed. The Task Force co-chairs and facilitator drafted initial guidance statements based on literature cited in recent national and regional MGtreatment guidelines49 supplemented by other literature.Guidance statements were developed for the following1. Symptomatic and immunosuppressive IS treatments 2. IV immunoglobulin IVIg and plasma exchange PLEX 3. Impending and manifest myasthenic crisis 4. Thymectomy 5. Juvenile MG JMG 6. MG with antibodies to muscle-specific tyrosinekinase MuSK-MG 7. MG in pregnancyVoting process for consensus guidance treatment statements. We used the RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method RAM for formal consensus to quantify agreement.10 RAM uses a multi-round modified Delphi process to obtain a quantitative assessment that reflects the judgment of an expert group. Appropriateness refers to the relative benefit vs harm of the intervention.
Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.MMS The patient has no symptoms or functional limitations from MG but has some weakness on examination of some muscles. This class recognizes that some patients who otherwise meet the definition of remission have mild weakness.CTCAE grade 1 medication side effects asymptomatic or only mild symptoms intervention not indicated.2. Definition of remission. The patient has no symptoms or signs of MG. Weakness of eyelid closure is accepted but there is no weakness of any other muscle on careful examination. Patients taking cholinesterase inhibitors ChEIs every day with reasonable evidence to support symptomatic benefit are therefore excluded from this category.3. Definition of ocular MG based on dysfunction due toMG at a specified point in time and not dependent upon the duration of disease.MGFA Class I3 Any ocular muscle weakness. May have weakness of eye closure. Strength in all other facial bulbar and limb muscles is normal. It is recognized that some patients report fatigue when strength testing is normal. The physician should use clinical judgment in attributing fatigue to generalized MG in the absence of objective nonocular weakness.4. Definition of impending myasthenic crisis.
every other day. However because her osteoporosis became more severe 6 months previously a switch had been made from PSL to tacrolimus 3 mg daily and her symptoms had continued to remain under control. Because her blood eosinophil count had recently risen in the absence of any precipitating cause the increase was suspected of being drug-induced and tacrolimus was stopped. However when she broke out in a rash 2 weeks later a drug eruption was suspected and she was referred to our department. Physical examination showed widespread purpura on her lower legs Fig. 1a end. Laboratory test revealed hypereosinophilia 7.82 9 10/l with elevated IgE 901 IU/ml normal up to 173 and high titers of rheumatoid factor 82 IU/ml normal 010. Myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody MPO-ANCA was negative and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody showed an increased value of 48 nmol/l normal up to 0.2. Skin biopsy showed necrotizing vasculitis with a marked eosinophilic infiltration. CSS was diagnosed and when treatment with tacrolimus 3 mg daily was resumed the eruption almost completely resolved in 1 week Fig. 1b end. CSS is rare with prevalence of 10.713 per million inhabitants 1 whereas the prevalence of MG is 50 per million inhabitants 2.
In general many kinds of autoimmune diseases can be associated with MG 5. Among them PM is relatively rare 5 6 7 and invasive thymoma is frequently concomitant as an underlying disease in cases of PM associated with MG 8. Invasive thymoma is probably related to the pathogenesis of both PM and MG and this patient was successfully treated with surgical removal of invasive thymoma and oral prednisolone as shown in previous reports 8 9 10.On readmission to our hospital 15 years after onset of the disease the main cause of muscle weakness with myalgia was considered to be PM on the basis of an increase in serum levels of muscular enzymes including CK and inflammatory markers. Anti-AchR antibodies in serum remained at a low level and there was no apparent clinical evidence suggesting a recurrence of MG. Although the patient was at first treated with lowdose hydrocortisone for adrenocortical insufficiency ascribable to cessation of long-term oral prednisolone the muscle weakness and myalgia persisted. In the treatment for recurrence of PM oral prednisolone is usually employed as the first-line drug 11 12 13. In this patient however multiple bone fractures ascribable to long-term oral prednisolone were present and this drug could not be used again for treatment.
When muscular symptoms due to PM are resistant to these drugs other immunomodulatory treatments such as high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin can also be considered as a therapeutic option 19 20. As this patient sometimes showed the reappearance of myasthenic symptoms tacrolimus was selected from among these candidate drugs because of its effectiveness also in MG 21 22 23 particularly in thymectomized patients following the guidelines approved by the Ministry of Public Health and Welfare of Japan. This drug is classified among immunosuppressive agents acting as calcineurin inhibitors and reversibly and strongly suppresses cytokine production mainly from helper T cells such as cyclosporin A 24. In this patient tacrolimus was used for the treatment of PM but also to prevent the recurrence of. MG. end. At present there is only one clinical report demonstrating the efficacy of tacrolimus in the treatment of refractory PM 25. According to this report all cases showed improvement of muscle weakness in parallel with normalization of CK in serum within 6 months of the initiation of tacrolimus. In this patient also the serum level of CK returned to a normal value 3 months after initiation of tacrolimus and muscle strength gradually recovered in 6 months.
Histological examination showed an involuted thymus with predominance of adipose tissue without evidence of lymphoid follicles. At that time AChR antibody titer was 1.7 nM/L and HCV RNA levels were 1190000 copies/ ml. Treatment remained unaltered after surgery.In April 1999 the patient was found to have arterial hypertension 180/110 mmHg laboratory tests were consistent with mild nephropathy blood urea nitrogen 36 mg/dl serum creatinine 1.6 mg/ dl serum potassium 5.5 mEq/L. He was placed on a low-protein and low-sodium diet and antihypertensive treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme ACE inhibitors was started. In order to reduce nephrotoxicity the cyclosporine dosage was gradually reduced to 100 mg/day but had to be increased again to 200 mg/day owing to worsening MG with ptosis constant diplopia and weakness of neck and limb muscles QMG score 15.In September 1999 the patient who had neglected his dietary restrictions and antidiabetic therapy was readmitted to hospital complaining of increased weakness weight loss recurrent headaches and visual flashes. He was found to have decompensated diabetes arterial hypertension and mild renal failure blood urea nitrogen 50 mg/dl serum creatinine 1.7 mg/dl serum potassium 5.5 mEq/L.
Almost 60.6% of concentrations 154/254 were subjected to CYP3A53 genetic testing.The polymorphism for CYP3A51/1 1/3 and 3/3 were 2314.9%6441.6% and6743.5% respectively. The genotype distribution is consistent with HardyWeinbergequilibrium P0.05.There were no significant difference in sex age and weight among thedifferent genotype groups P0.05.The C0/D ratios of tacrolimus in the CYP3A53/3 group were significantly higher thanCYP3A51/3 groups and CYP3A51/3 groups were also higher when compared with those in the CYP3A51/1 groups among the 73 concentrations 47.4% 73/154 who were not used concomitant drugs potentially interfering with tacrolimus metabolism P0.0082 T. able 2 end. Tacrolimus concentrations were also compared in patients on the same tacrolimus medication regimen between different genotype groups. For the recommended dose of 3mg/d a significant difference of C0 levels were observed among CYP3A53 genotype groups P0.024. Figure 1.It was also shown that C0 could reach the effective concentration when almost 2-3mg/dtacrolimus was used for patients with CYP3A533 genotype and 2mg/d was adequate for 59.3% 16/27 of them.
Therefore TDM and CYP3A53 genetic polymorphism is warranted for tacrolimus dosing adjustment to optimize the treatment for patients with MG.References for online-only E-extra publication1 Cruz JL Wolff ML Vanderman AJ et al.The emerging role of tacrolimus in myasthenia gravis J.Ther Adv Neurol Disord. 20158292-103.2 Kanai T Uzawa A Kawaguchi N et al. Adequate tacrolimus concentration for myasthenia gravis treatment J. Eur J Neurol. 2017 242270-275.3 Neuroimmunology group of Chinese society of neurology Neuroimmunology associationChinese Society for Immunology. Guideline of diagnosis and treatment of myasthenia gravis inChina 2015J. Chin J Neurol. 2015 4811934-940. 4 Rani N Dragojevi-Simi V Vavi N et al. Tacrolimusconcentration/dose ratio as a. therapeutic drug monitoring strategythe influence of gender and comedicationJ.VojnosanitPregl 2015729813-822.5 Takeuchi H Iwamoto H Nakamura Y et al. Synergistic effects of calcineurin inhibitors and steroids on steroid sensitivity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells.Cell Med 2015 7 5155.6 Zuo Xiao-Cong Zhou Ya-Nan Zhang Bi-Kui et al. Effect of CYP3A53 polymorphism on pharmacokinetic drug interaction between tacrolimus and amlodipine. Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2013285398-405.7 Zhao Wei Baudouin Vronique Fakhoury May et al.
In midOctober 2001 the addition of azathioprine max 125 mg/day improved her myasthenic condition in parallel with a reduction in the titer of the anti-AChR antibody Figure. Her diabetic condition gradually improved associated with an increase in the titer of C peptide and it could be managed by diet alone Figure. In March 2002 her myasthenic condition was very mild II a without ptosis and the LETTER TO THE EDITORS. J Neurol 2004 251  11541155 DOI 10.1007/s00415-004-0504-2. Tetsuro Konishi Mitsuru Sanada Kazuya Takehana. Myasthenic crisis after the cessation of FK506 in a patient with myasthenia gravisReceived 25 September 2003 Received in revised form 16 March 2004 Accepted 23 March 2004Sirs It is widely accepted that myasthenia gravis MG a T-cell dependent chronic autoimmune disorder is induced by sustained production of an antibody to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors AChR at the neuromuscular junction 1. Tacrolimus FK506 a macrolide immunosuppressant derived from Streptomyces tsukubaensis 5 was used in clinical trials 2 11 and also in one open-labeled clinical trial 6.
Although the tacrolimus treatment duration was only five months the discontinuation of tacrolimus may be responsible for the myasthenic crisis associated with an increase in the titer ofthe receptor antibody. As reinstitution of the immunosuppressive drug azathioprine improved the myasthenic symptoms 3 7 we added azathioprine to the corticosteroids which successfully improved the symptoms with a marked reduction in the titer of the receptor antibody.This report is the first case of a myasthenic crisis after discontinuation of tacrolimus. It is generally advisable not to stop immunosuppressive medication abruptly but rather by gradual tapering. Successful use of sugammadex for caesarean section in a patient with myasthenia gravis. KEYWORDS Myasthenia gravis Sugammadex PregnancyPALAVRAS-CHAVE Miastenia grave Sugammadex GravidezO uso bem-sucedido de sugamadex para cesariana em paciente com miastenia graveResumo Miastenia grave MG  uma doenca autoimune caracterizada por fraqueza muscular que flutua piorando com o esforco fsico e melhorando com o repouso. O diagnstico de MG  feito aps exame clnico e fsico e confirmado por imunoensaios sricos para medir os nveis de autoanticorpos. MG especialmente quando associada  gravidez  uma doenca de alto risco e de curso imprevisvel.
Case Rep Obstet Gynecol. 20122012736024. Ocular myasthenia gravis treatment successes and failures in patients with long-term follow-up. We previously reported that prednisone reduced the frequency of generalized myasthenia GMG and controlled diplopia without major adverse effects at 2 years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Questions remain as to whether study subjects had longstanding disease biasing results towards a steroid benefit and if prednisone merely delayed GMG onset. Here we performed a record review of a referral neuro-ophthalmology service OMG database for patients who were followed-up for C4 years or until GMG developed. We studied the effect of prednisone on GMG incidence and control of ocular symptoms. Generally patients with diplopia were recommended for prednisone therapy. Most remained on daily 2.510 mg for diplopia control. We compared the results for prednisone-treated and untreated pyridostigmine only patients. Of 87 patients 55 were in the prednisone-treated and 32 were in the untreated groups. GMG developed in 7 13% of the prednisone-treated OR 0.41 95% CI 0.220.76 and in 16 50% of the untreated OR 2.78 95% CI 1.684.60 patients. After OMG onset GMG developed at a mean 5.8 and 0.22 years in prednisone and untreated groups.
For 48 prednisone-treated patients who did not develop GMG OMG treatment failure occurred in 13. Thus prednisone delays the onset of GMG and has sustained benefit in reducing the incidence of GMG and controlling diplopia. Without prednisone GMG develops in 50% of OMG patients typically within 1 year. reduced the frequency of generalized myasthenia GMG and controlled diplopia without major adverse effects at 2 years in patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG. Questions remain as to whether study subjects had longstanding disease biasing results towards a steroid benefit and if prednisone merely delayed GMG onset. Here we performed a record review of a referral neuro-ophthalmology service OMG database for patients who were followed-up for C4 years or until GMG developed. We studied the effect of prednisone on GMG incidence and control of ocular symptoms. Generally patients with diplopia were recommended for prednisone therapy. Most remained on daily 2.510 mg for diplopia control. We compared the results for prednisone-treated and untreated pyridostigmine only patients. Of 87 patients 55 were in the prednisone-treated and 32 were in the untreated groups.
rointestinal and bone dysfunction 11. Review articles on OMG have questioned whether in prior studies case selection of patients with extended symptom duration and disease burden limited to OMG prior to initiating therapy may have biased the results resulting in too large a benefit of corticosteroid treatment in decreasing the incidence of generalized myasthenia gravis GMG 1214. In addition some authors have questioned whether corticosteroids truly reduce development of GMG or merely delay the onset of deterioration and whether control of diplopia relative to the systemic side effects is warranted 13 15 16. The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether the incidence of developing generalized myasthenia after presentation as OMG can be reduced by treatment with lowdose prednisone therapy after a moderate dose regimen tapered over 1012 weeks or whether this therapy merely postpones conversion to GMG. The secondary purpose is to determine the frequency with which the OMG symptoms and ptosis and ocular muscle limitation are controlled in prednisone-treated patients at a minimum of 4-year followup. We also examined the course and treatment of the cases where OMG was uncontrolled by prednisone.
The prednisone dose was started at 10 mg daily for two days followed by 20 mg daily for two days. The dose was increased to 5060 mg per day for one week. The daily dose was reduced by to 10 mg per week and in general it took approximately 12 weeks to reach 10 mg per day. The dose was further reduced by 2.5 mg per day each week while clinically titrating the dose to the patients clinical symptoms and findings of OMG. In the treated group pyridostigmine was used indoses aimed at alleviating residual or recurrent diplopia. Untreated patients received pyridostigmine using the maximum tolerated daily divided doses in an attempt to alleviate ptosis and diplopia. In general untreated patients were treated with higher daily doses of pyridostigmine.All of the patients were questioned and examined at each evaluation by MJK for the presence of GMG and any corticosteroid complications during the previous period. At each visit patients were probed for symptoms of fatigue change in activity due to fatigue or weakness shortness of breath change in voice problems swallowing or weakness in daily activities or exercise. The strengths of facial jaw and neck flexion and extension and the extremities with particular attention paid to the proximal muscle groups were evaluated at each visit.
Other therapies with significant immunomodulation or immunosuppression appear to reduce deterioration of OMG to GMG. Azathioprine usually administered concomitantly with prednisolone significantly reduces 12% compared to 64% for those without immunosuppressive treatment the development of GMG 22. Though mycophenolate mofetil appears to be a good adjunctive therapy for GMG published reports on controlling OMG or reducing deterioration to GMG have been lacking 23 24. Only one study has been published using mycophenolate in OMG patientsand this was done in combination with prednisone 25. Of 27 patients who remained on the mycophenolate 93% did not develop GMG at 2 years so this regimen appears effective but the role of early treatment with prednisone may account for some of the benefit.Although the current study was not designed to address the role of thymectomy in OMG the two patients with thymoma underwent surgical resection without benefit with respect to the OMG. One patient required prednisone developing OMG findings 3 years after thymectomy and the other had persistent ophthalmoparesis and diplopia despite surgery and later failed prednisone and azathioprine therapy.
However these studies are far from conclusive due to limited documentation of OMG findings and the frequent inclusion of OMG patients who have had the disease for longer than six months and are therefore at low risk of developing GMG.In contrast to our prior report the risk of GMG was only slightly increased in patients with an abnormal acetylcholine receptor antibody level however as previously shown the absolute level was not predictive 4. It appears that having an abnormal AChR antibody is more predictive of early GMG development in patients not treated with prednisone.The optimal therapy for controlling OMG signs and symptoms has not been determined and the administration of corticosteroids to eliminate extraocular muscle limitation and diplopia continues to be controversial 12 13 15 16.
It appears advantageous to prevent GMG during the first year since the risk of developing GMG decreases when the duration of OMG exceeds 1 year and is even lower after 2 years. One of our patients who required 5 mg of prednisone every three days to prevent severe ophthalmoplegia stopped the medication after 3 years and developed GMG 4 years later. Prednisone treatment has a dual purpose restoring ocular function and reducing deterioration to GMG. We do not know whether low-dose prednisone would be effective once GMG has developed. Without a randomized trial which multiple authors 1316 and the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology have already asked for 12 this observational study appears to provide the only available data and suggests that early intervention with low doses of steroid therapy favorably alters the natural history of this disorder and both delays and reduces the frequency of GMG. However continued corticosteroid therapy appears to be needed in most cases.Acknowledgment This work was financially supported by Alice and Richard Netter the David B. Kriser Foundation and the Michael Fisher Foundation. With interest we read the article by Sugimoto et al.
Funding end. No funding was received. Author contribution. JF design literature search discussion first draft FAS ACF CAS literature search discussion critical comments.https//doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2020.116812 Received 13 March 2020 Accepted 27 March 2020Available online 31 March 2020 0022-510X/  2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.T. Declaration of Competing Interest. There are no conflicts of interest. All authors contributed equally. The effect of prednisone on the progression from ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. Fifty percent of ocular myasthenia gravis OMG patients will progress to generalized myasthenia 90% within 3 years from the onset of ocular symptoms. This study was performed to determine whether treatment with oral prednisone initiated and completed within 2 years from the onset of ocular symptoms would affect the progression of ocular myasthenia to generalized myasthenia gravis GMG. Fifty-six patients were included in this review with 27 patients in the prednisone-treated group and 29 patients in the untreated group. The treated group was initiated on 60 mg of prednisone daily with a slow taper over 36 months.
Our results suggest that the early use of steroids may decrease progression of ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis. The decision to use steroids should be considered early in the course of patients diagnosed with ocular myasthenia gravis. This study should be considered preliminary and a prospective trial is warranted to confirm our observations. D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Fifty percent of ocular myasthenia gravis OMG patients will progress to generalized myasthenia 90% within 3 years from the onset of ocular symptoms. This study was performed to determine whether treatment with oral prednisone initiated and completed within 2 years from the onset of ocular symptoms would affect the progression of ocular myasthenia to generalized myasthenia gravis GMG. Fifty-six patients were included in this review with 27 patients in the prednisone-treated group and 29 patients in the untreated group. The treated group was initiated on 60 mg of prednisone daily with a slow taper over 36 months. At 2 years significantly fewer patients in the treated group 3 of 27 progressed to generalized myasthenia when compared to the untreated group 10 of 29 v2 p  0.04. Our results suggest that the early use of steroids may decrease progression of ocular to generalized myasthenia gravis.
This study should be considered preliminary and a prospective trial is warranted to confirm our observations. D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Keywords Myasthenia gravis Ocular Prednisone Immune1. Introduction There have been reports of a lower rate of OMGApproximately 50% of all acquired myasthenia gravis patients present with ocular symptoms of ptosis and/or diplopia with no clinical evidence of bulbar respiratory or limb muscle weakness 16. Of those patients with ocular myasthenia gravis OMG about 5060% will subsequently develop generalized myasthenia gravis GMG with 80% progressing within the first year and 90% within 3 years 157. About 10% will have episodes of spontaneous remission and be symptom-free 15. Serum acetylcholine receptor antibodies positive in about 3550% in OMG abnormal results on repetitive nerve stimulation single-fiber electromyography or abnormal curare sensitivity is not predictive of those patients who are more likely to develop generalized myasthenia gravis 14811.0022-510X/ - see front matter D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi10.1016/j.jns.2003.08.017 Corresponding author. Tel. 1-203-688-2495 fax 1-203-688-3109.E-mail address Huned.PatwaYale.Edu H.S. Patwa.progressing to GMG in patients who received immunomodulating therapy 812.
In interpreting the significance of our findings one needs to consider the mechanism by which prednisone decreases the progression from OMG to GMG. While the exact action of prednisone as an immunomodulating agent is not known it is possible that corticosteroids may delay the onset of GMG without altering the underlying immunopathology. The majority of patients with myasthenia gravis require ongoing immunosuppression with either corticosteroids or other medications that suppress the immune system. This suggests that prednisone may not permanently change the immune system but may well play an important role early in the disease course which may prevent the patient from developing GMG. Further study of the actions of corticosteroids may help to clarify this issue in the future.Selection bias is a potential problem in any retrospective study. We found in our untreated patients who served as internal controls that 34% went on to develop generalized myasthenia gravis at 2 years which is in agreement with 41% as reported in the literature 1.The decision to use steroids in the treatment of ocular myasthenia gravis is controversial 14.
Its current treatment includes hymectomy as an early consideration and several imunosuppressive agents such as corticosteroids azathiorine and cyclosporin. Although immunosuppressive regiens are very effective important issues related to the mangement of patients with generalized uncontrollable myashenic symptoms or serious side effects of long-term steroid Corresponding author. Tel. 34 93 2746000x6587 ax 34 93 2746224. E-mail addressesponsetihg.vhebron.es 5012jpbcomb.es J.M. Ponseti.treatment remained unanswered. Tacrolimus FK506 macrolide molecule of the same immunosuppressant cla cyclosporin and has a potent immunosuppressive. The pound which suppresses interleukin-2 production assoc with T cell activation inhibits differentiation and prolifer tion of cytotoxic T cells. Successful treatment of myasth gravis with tacrolimus has been recently reported in pat with intractable myasthenia14. Based on these enco aging initial results we started treatment with tacrolimu patients with residual myasthenia gravis in whom it was possible to reduce the doses of prednisone and/or due occurrence of important side effects of cyclosporin an side effects of prednisone. Results after 12 months of t ment are here presented.
All rights reserved. oi10.1016/j.clineuro.2004.07.013. 2 end. Patients and methods. Six men and nine women with a mean of 45.6 years S.D. 14.6 range 2872 gave written consent to participate in a prospective open-label study. The study protocol was approved by the local institutional review board and authorised by the Spanish health authorities AEM protocol 02-0081 code MG/601200-T. All patients had undergone transsternal extended thymectomy at least in the previous 3 years and were under treatment with prednisone mean dose 33.1 mg/day range 1060 and cyclosporin 23 mg/kg per day plasma levels 80120 ng/mL. Histological findings included hyperplasia of the thymus in seven patients encapsulated thymoma Masaoka stage I in three and invasive thymoma in five Masaoka stage III 4 stage IVa 1. According to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America MGFA clinical classification5 all patients had muscle weakness affecting other than ocular muscles class IIIa moderate weakness predominantly affecting limb axial muscles or both 2 patients class IIIb moderate weakness predominantly affecting oropharyngeal respiratory muscles or both 10 patients and class IVb severe weakness predominantly affecting oropharyngeal respiratory muscles or both 3 patients.
In this case the coexistence of hepatitis C and type 2 diabetes contraindicated the use of steroids and azathioprine and cyclosporine although effective had induced renal failure. In 16 patients with steroid-resistant generalized myasthenia gravis treatment with tacrolimus for 16 weeks was accompanied by significant improvement of myasthenic signs3. Wakata et al.4 studied the therapeutic effect of tacrolimus given for 16 weeks and noted improvement in 7 of 13 myasthenic patients on the clinical muscle test. Two other patients with relapsing ocular symptoms improved. The present results are consistent with data of these aforementioned studies and add evidence to the benefits of including tacrolimus in the therapeutic armamentarium of myasthenia gravis.CAedi al i d the p studyexecution and wrote the paper. J end. Azem and J.M. Fort participated actively in the care of myasthenic patients did the statistical analysis and approved the final draft. A end. Codina reviewed the design of the study participated in study execution reviewed patients data and approved the final version. J.B end. Montoro participated in study execution reviewed the report drafts and approved the final version. M end.
Most of these are case reports and retrospective case series. After a comprehensive search we selected five studies consisting of a retrospective analysis of the main features of LOMG patients Table 1. The review in the literature reveals a scarce number of cases of MG beginning after age 85 and only anecdotal cases with onset after 90 years 25. We report the case of a 93-year-old female patient presenting with generalized muscle weakness dysphagia diplopia and bilateral palpebral ptosis with anti-AchRs and RNS studies compatible with a myasthenia gravis. The introduction of targeted therapy resulted in significant clinical improvement. Despite typical clinical presentation there was a 2-month delay in the diagnosis. Age-associated changes multimorbidity and the possibility of an alternate diagnosis are possible explanations for the delay in diagnosis. Recognition of LOMG is essential because of its diagnostic and therapeutic implications in the elderly population. Comparing LOMG with early-onset MG it appears that LOMG has a male predominance a lower  Renato Oliveira renato.silva.oliveirahospitaldaluz.pt.
The immune-regulatory effect of vitamin D is known to inhibit effector T cells directly and also induce Treg to decrease the production of inflammatory cytokines. Both vitamin D and Treg might be critical for T cell regulation 34. Previous studies have shown that vitamin D levels are low in patients with autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis 57. However there are few studies on vitamin D status in autoimmune neuromuscular diseases.The aims of this study were to evaluate serum levels of 125 OH2D and 25OHD in patients with MG and healthy controlsand the association of vitamin D levels with clinical severity and treatment status. 2 end. Methods end. end. 2.1 end. Subjects end. We reviewed data from the MG registry of Jeju National University Hospital and selected MG patients without taking vitamin D supplementation. We identified 34 patients and 9 patients refused to participate in the study. A total of 25 patients were ultimately enrolled. Diagnostic criteria of MG included clinical muscle fatigue and decremental response on repetitive nerve stimulation test in conjunction with the presence of AChR antibodies. We only enrolled MG patients with anti-AChR antibodies AChR-MG.
MG patients were classified by disease stage ocular or generalized according to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America clinical classification age of onset early or late onset >50 years and treatment status whether or not to taking immunosuppressive agents. In addition the MG composite MGC scale was assessed to evaluate the disease severity. All subjects gave their written informed consent prior to participation in the study which was approved by the Ethics Committee of Jeju National University Hospital.oi.org/. 2.2 end. Measurement of 125OH2D and 25OHD. Serum samples for vitamin D measurements were obtained from one blood sample per individual and all samples were collected between January 1 and February 28 2015. 125OH2D and 25OHD levels were measured with chemiluminescence microparticle immunoassay in our hospital. The normal range of 125OH2D value was between 19.60 and 54.30 ng/mL. 25OHD levels <10 ng/mL 10 to 40 ng/mL and >100 ng/mL were defined as insufficiency sufficiency and toxicity respectively. 2.3 end. Statistical analysis. All data are expressed as mean  standard deviation SD. Means of the patient group and healthy control group were compared by the non-parametric Mann-Whitney test U test.
Values are presented as the mean  standard deviation.Please cite this article in press as Kang S-Y et al. Low serum vitamin D levels 10.1016/j.jocn.2018.01.047in the healthy controls mean 26.3  6.1 ng/mL range 19.4 37.4 p < .001. 125OH2D levels showed slightly high in AChRMG patients mean 46.4  21.9 ng/mL range 14.091.6 than healthy controls mean 42.1  7.0 ng/mL range 28.449.6 but had no significant difference between two groups. Five patients 20% showed insufficient levels of 25OHD but all healthy controls had sufficient 25OHD levels Fig. 1 end. Among 5 patients having insufficient 25OHD levels four had immunosuppressive agents. 3.3 end. Association between vitamin D and clinical severity and treatment status. In AChR-MG patients levels of 125OH2D did not significantly differ between ocular mean 50.9  28.7 ng/mL and generalized MG mean 48.6  25.7 ng/mL. Similarly levels of 25OHD did not differ between two groups ocular 17.2  4.9 ng/mL generalized 19.8  10.1 ng/mL. There is no significant difference in vitamin D levels between early and late onset MG patients. In addition levels of 125OH2D and 25OHD did not significantly differ between AChR-MG patients under immunosuppressive therapy and taking anti-cholinesterase only Table 2.
2 q  0.1439 p  .362. 4 end. Discussion. Vitamin D has been shown to exert a multitude of effects on the autoimmune systems and its deficiency is increasingly associated with a wide range of immune-mediated disorders. However there are few studies about association of vitamin D in autoimmune neuromuscular disorders. MG is a prototypic autoimmune disease and autoantibodies to the AChR are present in approximately 80% of patients. Various peripheral immunomodulatory mechanisms including suppression of autoreactive clones by regulatory T cells Treg normally eliminate autoreactive cells. Treg is essential for self-tolerance and defects in Treg can cause experimental autoimmunity 8. Functional defects of Treg have been reported inin patients with myasthenia gravis. J Clin Neurosci 2018 https//doi.org/patients with autoimmune disorders 910. The immuneregulatory effect of vitamin D is mediated by increasing the amount of Treg populations. Vitamin D also had the capacity to inhibit T-cell proliferation 1112. Experimental studies have demonstrated the administration of nave CD4CD25 Treg to AChR-immunized animals prevents experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis 13.
As many patients with MG are taking corticosteroid it seems reasonable to evaluate the vitamin D status in order to reduce the risk of osteoporosis. In addition no correlation was observed between vitamin D levels and clinical severity and onset of age. Although it is known that MGC scale is a valid instrument for measuring clinical status of patients with MG 25OHD levels did not correlate with myasthenic weakness measured by MGC score.Vitamin D exerts its biological function not only by influencing cellular processes directly but also by influencing gene expression via the vitamin D receptor. Vitamin D receptor expression was noted in the CNS Schwann cells muscles and peripheral neurons 17. Previous studies have revealed the role of vitamin D in several neurological disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis Alzheimers disease Parkinsons disease and stroke 71821. However study about a potential role of vitamin D in autoimmune neuromuscular disorders is lacking. The timing of vitamin D deficiency and its effects on disease risk the tissuespecific consequences of vitamin D deficiency on gene expression and the regional influence of vitamin D status in neurological disorders are key issues to be addressed.
ting the disease process of MG specifically through T- and B-lymphocytes.35. Mycophenolate Mofetil Treatment of Myasthenia Gravis. William D Cahoon Jr and Denise R KocklerDrug Information RoundsAuthor information provided at the end of the text.OBJECTIVE To review published literature evaluating the effectiveness of mycophenolate mofetil for the treatment of myasthenia gravis MG.DATA SOURCES Searches of MEDLINE 1966August 2005 and Cochrane Database 1993August 2005 were conducted. Studies conducted in humans and published in English were retrieved. Additional data were identified through subsequent bibliographic reviews.DATA SYNTHESIS Interruption of T- and B-lymphocyte proliferation in various autoimmune diseases has been investigated. Mycophenolate is known to inhibit lymphocyte proliferation and has shown improved clinical responses in several autoimmune diseases including lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis and systemic vasculitis. Data suggesting similar benefits in MG treatment have been reported in case reports retrospective analyses an open-label trial and a randomized double-blind trial.CONCLUSIONS Limited evidence from retrospective analyses and clinical trials suggests that mycophenolate is a possible treatment option for patients with MG.
These recommendations are outlined and discussed further in a recent editorial 2. These guidelines recommend that patients should be considered for osteoporosis prevention if their daily prednisolone dose is over 7.5 mg for 6 months a total dose of 1.35 g or more in 6 months. In those over the age of 65 years and those whose daily dose exceeds 15 mg for 6 months a total dose of 2.7 g osteoporosis treatment is recommended from onset. In younger patients with daily doses between 7.5 and 15 mg it is suggested that other risk factors such as premature menopause family history of fractures slender build and immobility should be considered. The guidelines suggest using bisphosphonates although another editorial mentions the small yet important risk of side effects the financial cost and the lack of information on long-term treatment 3. Patients with myasthenia gravis are a group of neurological patients who take corticosteroids often for prolonged periods 4. We undertook a retrospective review of patients with myasthenia gravis to determine how often osteoporosis prophylaxis would be indicated on the basis of these guidelines.
The guidelines suggest using bisphosphonates although another editorial mentions the small yet important risk of side effects the financial cost and the lack of information on long-term treatment 3.Patients with myasthenia gravis are a group of neurological pa-tients who take corticosteroids often for prolonged periods 4. We undertook a retrospective review of patients with myasthenia gravis to determine how often osteoporosis prophylaxis would be indicated on the basis of these guidelines. We reviewed the records of all 17 patients 11 men and 6 women with myasthenia gravis patients presenting to the Neurology Department at Gloucester and Cheltenham Hospital catchment population 550000 over a 5-year period. These included 4 with ocular myasthenia and 13 with generalized myasthenia 15 of whom were treated with oral prednisolone 3/4 with the ocular form and 12/13 with the generalized form. In the 15 patients treated with corticosteroids the mean total dose of prednisolone over the first 6 months was 4.6 g range 1.87.7 in those with ocular myasthenia 2.8 g range 1.83.5 and in those with generalized myasthenia 5.1 g range 2.17.7. Twelve of these had a total prednisolone dose over 6 months of more than 2.7 g equivalent to a daily dose of 15 mg.
This corticosteroid dosage was comparable to that reported in other studies. The daily prednisolone dose at 12 months in our patients was 225 mg. This compares with a median dose of 17.522.5 mg at 12 months in patients at tertiary referral centres 4.On the basis of the guidelines all patients who received corticos-teroids for myasthenia gravis needed osteoporosis prophylaxis 12 because they received an average dose of 15 mg or more and 3 with a dose between 7.5 mg and 15 mg because of additional risk factors. Treatment was initiated in this cohort of patients prior to the publication of the guidelines. Despite this however 11 of 15 were given osteoporosis prophylaxis with biphophonate treatment.On the basis of this retrospective review all myasthenia gravis patients started on prednisolone fulfilled the current guidelines for osteoporosis prophylaxis indicating that most patients in this situation should be started on osteoporosis prophylaxis treatment at the onset. Use of Sugammadex in an octagenerian with Myaesthenia Gravis undergoing emergency laporotomy.
Anaesthesia and surgery in patients with Myaesthenia Gravis is associated with an increased incidence of complications including post operative ventilation. We report the successful use of intra-operative train of four ratio monitoring and Sugammadex to reverse rocuronium induced neuromuscular blockade in an elderly octagenarian with Myaesthenia Gravis undergoing an emergency laporotomy. Case report An 87 year old man with Myaesthenia Gravis underwent an emergency laporotomy for a perforated sigmoid diverticulum. Induction of anaesthesia was performed with 100 g of fentanyl 120 mg propofol and 25 mg rocuronium. Intraoperative boluses of 5 mg rocuronium were guided by train of four ratio of 50%. At the end of the procedure 4 mg/kg of Sugammadex was given to reverse neuromuscular blockade as observed by return of four twitches on the train of four. He was then successfully extubated and did not require any post operative ventilation. Conclusion We report the successful use of intra-operative neuromuscular monitoring and Sugammadex to reverse rocuronium inducedneuromuscular blockade in an elderly octagenarianwithMyaestheniaGravis undergoing emergency laporotomy. 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Introduction Mycophenolate mofetil MMF is frequently used to treat myasthenia gravis but there is little information to guide clinicians on the safety of reducing the dose in well-controlled patients. Methods This retrospective chart review at 3 institutions identified 92 patients who had undergone MMF taper after achieving either pharmacologic remission or minimal manifestations status. Statistical analysis was performed to assess differences in patient characteristics between patients who had successfully tapered MMF and those who relapsed. Results Of 92 patients undergoing a taper 30 relapsed. The relapses were mild transient and usually responded to increased MMF dose. MG crisis did not occur. The mean dose at time of relapse was 888 mg/day. Patients with relapses were tapered more quickly 8.4 vs. 62.4 months. Conclusions Tapering MMF appears safe after years of disease stability. Reducing the dose at a dose of only 500 mg/day every 12 months is recommended. Muscle Nerve 52 211215 2015 Immunosuppression is often necessary to improve weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis MG. Effective treatment in MG should achieve maximum muscle strength function and quality of life with minimal associated treatment side effects.
Three patients 43% had previously failed other immunosuppressants. The initial MGFA classrecorded for the group was 2.71 6 1.1 whereas the worst MGFA class was 3.0 6 0.8.Patients had been taking MMF for a mean of 4.2 6 1.3 years range 26 years before initiating a taper. The mean daily maximum MMF dose in this group was 1642 mg 6 627 mg median 2000 mg range 50022000 mg. The observed taper occurred over a mean of 42.8 months range 25107 months. Mean follow-up at the lowest recorded dose was 22.8 months range 1254 months.When compared with those patients who were able to lower MMF doses but not completely discontinue medication a few differences were seen. There was a nearly significant trend toward shorter duration of MG before starting MMF 2.3 vs. 4.5 years P 5 0.06. These patients also had a lower maximum daily MMF dose 1642 vs. 2344 mg P 5 0.02 and a shorter duration of MMF treatment before starting the taper 4.2 vs. 5.9 years P 5 0.01. This subgroup was too small to draw conclusions but starting MMF earlier in their disease course may have resulted in a better outcome.Failed MMF Tapers. Thirty patients failed in their attempts to taper MMF 13 Mayo Clinic 1 University of Virginia and 16 Duke University. Of these 18 60% were men and 12 40% were women.
Most patients were antibody positiveUse of MMF in MG MUSCLE  NERVE August 2015 21380% had acetylcholine receptor antibodies and 7% had MuSK antibodies. Twelve patients 40% had undergone thymectomy with data on pathology in 10 of 12 4 thymoma 2 thymic hyperplasia 1 thymic atrophy 3 normal. Two of the patients with thymoma received radiation therapy after resection. Mean duration of MG before starting MMF was 3.74 6 4.6 years range 0.089.75 years. Ten patients 33% had previously failed other immunosuppressant therapies. The highest MGFA class recorded for the group was 2.80 6 1.16 range 15 Table 1. Nine patients 30% were taking prednisone at the time of taper failure. The mean daily dose was 8.9 6 5 mg/day median 7.5 mg range 520 mg at the time of MMF failure.Patients who failed MMF taper had been taking MMF for a mean of 4.39 6 2.6 years before initiating a taper. The mean maximum MMF dose in this group was 2216 6 387 mg/day range 1000 3000 mg/day. The mean taper duration time from first to last MMF dose change was 8.4 months range 0224 months. The mean dose at which MG relapse occurred was 888 6 755 mg/day median 1000 mg/day range 03000 mg/day. Mean time to relapse on that dose was 8.13 6 10.1 months median 4 months range 0.518 months.
l educations. Therefore infection with this parasite may be neglected by clinicians. 2 laboratory negligence stool examination is usually requested for the detection of intestinal parasites which is routinely performed through wet direct smear or rarely by concentration method both with lower sensitivity compared to agar plate test for the detection of chronic infections with S. stercoralis and 3 lack of guideline for the screening of S. stercoralis in patients under therapy with immunosuppressive agents. Infection with S. stercoralis may be identified during the advanced stage of hyper-infection when it is too late for anti-parasite treatment and therefore with high mortality as observed in our case reported here.Although S. Stercoralis is reported to be the major parasitic agent for the appearance of eosinophilia in clinical cases in Guilan province 13 nevertheless no eosinophilia was found in our patient who showed a large number of S. stercoralis larvae in both stool and sputum examinations. The low rate of eosinophilia in hyper-infection or disseminated strongyloidiasis is attributed to the suppressive effect of corticosteroids 14. It is proposed that corticosteroids induce the hyper-infection of S.
ned MG exacerbations.7 Among the contributors to MG exacerbations infections account for 40-70% of cases and a 3-8% mortality rate.89 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention broadly recommends annual influenza vaccinations for all persons over the age of 6 months and notes the particular importance in persons at increased risk for severe complications including those immunosuppressed by medications.10 Administration of pneumococcal vaccines PCV13 and PPSV23 is advised for all healthy indi. viduals Abbreviations ED emergency department EMR electronic medical records MAUC-MG medications to be avoided or used cautiously in patients with MG MG myasthenia gravis MGFA Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America VNPI vaccine nonpreventable infections VPI vaccine preventable infections..Muscle  Nerve. 201917 end. wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/mus  2019 Wiley Periodicals Inc.
eview pertinent patient demographics age race gender date of diagnosis and MGFA classifications at diagnosis. Clinic notes from neurology primary care and ED visits were reviewed to obtain data on immunizations medications and accounts of each MG exacerbation. The retrieved data focused on documented date presumed cause and severity of exacerbation along with subsequent ED visit hospital admission and admission duration.Immunization records were acquired from EMR documentation which included a record of nurse-administered vaccinations or patient account of outside vaccination. Our cohort of patients was analyzed between 2011 and 2016 therefore pneumococcal pneumonia vaccinations were accounted for from 2006 onward. The vaccinations of interest for vaccine preventable infections VPI were seasonal influenza and pneumococcal vaccines PCV13 and PPSV23. Development of an acute MG exacerbation associated with VPI was defined by the presence of VPI at the time of ED visit/ hospitalization. Diagnosis ofVPI was established by documented laboratory tests including microbiology assessment blood/sputum cultures or imaging that supported diagnosis of seasonal influenza or pneumonia.
All cases of unspecified upper respiratory infections were included in the vaccine nonpreventable infectionsVNPI group.Specific cautioned medications listed in the MGFA Drugs to avoid or use with caution in MG list are referred to as medications to avoid or be used with caution in patients with MG MAUC-MG.12At the institution from which our study subjects were selected each patient was given a recommendation to receive the pneumococcal pneumonia and annual influenza vaccinations before treatment. Each patient diagnosed with MG went through medication reconciliation was educated on pharmaceutical contributors to acute MG exacerbations and was provided with the aforementioned MGFA list. Records were reviewed to determine instances of prescriptions for MAUC-MG patients without an established neuromuscular specialist without neuromuscular specialist consultation or without established initial care at this institution. 2.2  Exacerbation categorization.
The underlying reason is that anti-AChR antibodies are produced not only in the thymus but also in external tissues including peripheral lymph nodes and bone marrow. Therefore the additional immunotherapies such as those with steroids are anyways required in many MG patients after thymectomy. The same fact was recognized even in our study.A limitation of this study was that we compared a little different time periods of the two groups. Because results of treatment generally improve with time by various causes this factor might influence results of our study. However significant effect of preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment was remarkable high as an independent predictor of the modified PR in MG patients after thymectomy in the multivariate analysis Cox regression analysis   0.008. Thus taking this thing together with our other previously mentioned data and previous reports we considered that the result had sufficient reliability.The autoimmune nature of the disease underlies the rationale for using steroids considering that the beneficial effects of this group of drugs have been observed in other autoimmune diseases. The mechanisms of action of steroids in MG patients are poorly understood.
Diabetes is a strong but not absolute contraindication to steroids. Glucose control requires adjustment of hypoglycemic agents and it can be especially challenging if an alternate-day regimen is attempted. In such patients wemay administer a daily dose while decreasing the amount as rapidly and as completely as the disease allows. Themany severe side effects of long-term steroid use indicate that such a long-term use should be avoided.Therefore other immunosuppressive drugs could be coadministered to enable a decrease in the steroid dosage 2123 although these agents may have their own side effects that require monitoring 13 24.Thymoma has been reported as a factor associated with worse neurological outcome and symptom relapse after thymectomy 25 26. The results from this study showed that thymomatous MG was a risk factor for the modified PR. Although themechanisms underlying the effects of thymoma on MG remain unclear several possibilities exist. For example thymoma is more common among older patients so that MG may be relatively more severe in patients with thymoma 11. Alternatively patients with thymoma may have an increased tendency for associated autoimmune disorders and extrathymic neoplasms 27.
5 end. Conclusion. In conclusion previous studies have revealed that preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment for the control of MG before surgery apparently stabilizes postoperative status. Ours might be the first study as per our knowledge to indicate that preoperative programmed high-dose steroid treatment has long-term beneficial effects for MG patients. Acknowledgment. Thisworkwas supported byGrants-in-Aid from the Research Committee of CNS Degenerative Diseases the Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare of Japan. Erratum to Shenqi Fuzheng Injection Alleviates the Transient Worsening Caused by Steroids Pulse Therapy in Treating Myasthenia Gravis. Erratum end. Erratum to Shenqi Fuzheng Injection Alleviates the Transient Worsening Caused by Steroids Pulse Therapy in Treating Myasthenia GravisGuo-Yan Qi Peng Liu and Bu-Lang Gao. Department of Oncology Shijiazhuang First Hospital and Hebei Provincial Hospital of Myasthenia Gravis. end. 36 Fanxi Road Shijiazhuang Hebei 050011 China. Correspondence should be addressed to Bu-Lang Gao browngao163.comReceived 23 February 2014 Accepted 6 March 2014 Published 18 March 2014Copyright  2014 Guo-Yan Qi et al.
Treatment with methylprednisolone for myasthenia gravis was associated with a marked decrease in both biochemical markers of bone formation and resorption without any changes in endogenous cAMP and serum levels of calcium PTH and 125dihydroxyvitamin D3 125-OH2D3. These findings suggest that the possible pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism may be attributed to the increased calcium reabsorption in the kidney and the increased intestinal calcium absorption as a result of stimulated production of 125-OH2D3 in the kidney. It thus follows that the renal tubular effect rather than the skeletal effect of the PTH excess may play a pivotal role in the development of hypercalcemia in primary hyperparathyroidism. KEY INDEXING TERMS Glucocorticoids Hypercalcemia Parathyroid hormone Primary hyperparathyroidism.
After day 2 of this rechallenge the patient reported a substantial increase in her depressive symptoms. Treatment was discontinued again with improvement in the patients symptoms within 2 days. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the patients development of depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Future evaluations of mycophenolate mofetil should include an assessment of psychological adverse effects. In addition postmarketing surveillance should be encouraged to further delineate the association between depression and mycophenolate mofetil therapy. Depressive Disorder Associated with Mycophenolate MofetilHeather M. Draper Pharm.D.Immunosuppressive pharmacologic agents are associated with a diverse array of adverse drug reactions. One of these agents mycophenolate mofetil is indicated for prevention of allogeneic organ transplant rejection and has recently been evaluated for treatment of autoimmune disease states including myasthenia gravis. Although the prescribing information for mycophenolate mofetil reports depression as an adverse event no descriptions of the onset or manifestation of this idiosyncratic reaction have been published.
After a 12-day hospital stay she was discharged home her symptoms were resolved and her rating on the Global Assessment of Functioning was 8090 indicating absent or minimal symptoms good functioning in all areas interest and involvement in a wide range of activities social effectiveness general satisfaction with life and problems or concerns of only an everyday nature. Discussion. Reports indicate that the lifetime incidence of depression in patients with myasthenia gravis is 3342% which is similar to that in patients with other chronic illnesses including other neurologic or neuromuscular diseases.7 8 Depression in patients with myasthenia gravis is thought to be associated with the onset of symptoms the diagnosis of the disease and possibly with disease exacerbations.8 A potential difficulty arises in the diagnosis of depression in patients with myasthenia gravis many o. f the tools used to diagnose depression assess symptoms and manifestations common to both depression and myasthenia gravis.
A maintenance dose of prednisolone for myasthenia gravis could not shrink the size of the disseminated thymoma but prednisolone N30 mg daily succeeded in reducing the size of the tumor. Moreover a combination with tacrolimus enabled the daily dose of prednisolone to be tapered off without recurrence of myasthenia gravis and the disseminated thymoma almost disappeared. A moderate or higher dosage of corticosteroids with tacrolimus may in some cases be an effective procedure for pleural dissemination of thymoma. Treatment should be undertaken on a trial basis for patients not indicated for surgery radiotherapy or chemotherapy. 2006 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. We present the case of an elderly woman with myasthenia gravis who had pleural dissemination of thymoma reduced by treatments with a moderate dose of corticosteroids and a conventional dose of tacrolimus. A maintenance dose of prednisolone for myasthenia gravis could not shrink the size of the disseminated thymoma but prednisolone N30 mg daily succeeded in reducing the size of the tumor.
1 end. Ten months after initiating the combined treatment the disseminated thymoma had almost disappeared Fig. 1 October 2005.Tacrolimus may be an effective agent for myasthenia gravis and disseminated thymoma. However it should be administered with caution due to its potential toxic effects such as cardiomyopathy nephrotoxicity and hematological disorders when given in high doses 6.In summary we presented a rare case with pleural dissemination of a thymoma that was reduced by treatments with corticosteroids and tacrolimus. Moderate doses of corticosteroids with tacrolimus may in some cases be an effective procedure for pleural dissemination of thymoma and such treatment should be undertaken on a trial basis for patients not indicated for surgery radiotherapy or chemotherapy. 4 end. Learning point. The administration of moderate or high dosages of corticosteroids with tacrolimus may in some cases be effective for treating pleural dissemination of thymoma. The Role of Osteopontin and Its Gene on Glucocorticoid Response in Myasthenia Gravis.
ed phosphoprotein 1.Variables responsive n231 non-responsive n19 p ValueAge of onset years 44.0816.38 42.7419.39 0.734 Gender 0.403Male 87 9 Female 144 10Thymoma 0.056 Absence 176 14 Presence 55 10 Anti-AChR antibody 0.786 Negative 62 4 Positive 161 14 Involved muscles at disease onset 0.581 Ocular muscle 160 12 Generalized muscle 71 7 Thymectomy 0.280 No 203 15 Yes 28 4Disease duration before usage of gcs Within 6months 159 9 0.055 After 6months 72 10 QMGS before treatment median months 6 7 0.9. 92MG myasthenia gravis AChR acetylcholine receptor GC glucocorticoid QMGS quantitative myasthenia gravis score.2Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230a single nucleotide polymorphism SNP in the GC receptor gene as an independent factor associated with short-term GC responsiveness among patients with MG 9.Osteopontin OPN is a pro-inflammatory cytokine and increased circulating levels have been associated with inflammatory muscle diseases and muscular dystrophy 1013 as well as the onset and progression of Crohns disease myocarditis uveitis idiopathic retroperit. oneal fibrosis and rheumatoid arthritis 1416.
Patients were followed monthly for 3months after treatment initiation and QMGS determined by a physician trained in its performance 18. The control group consisted of 474 healthy individuals age-matched to the study population andTable 2  Twelve snPs in healthy control gc responsive and gc non-responsive groups.snP major/minor Function genetic modelscontrolc n474 responsivec n231non-responsivec n19hWe p ValueaOrb 95% cirs2728127 5 near ALLELIC 584/364 290/170 26/12 0.41 0.508 0.787 0.3871.601A/G Gene GENO 169/246/59 88/114/28 9/8/2 0.74 DOM 169/305 88/142 9/10 0.44 0.69 0.271.76 REC 415/59 202/28 17/2 0.83 0.85 0.193.87rs2853744. 5 near ALLELIC 578/370 290/170 26/12 0.12 0.508 0.787 0.3871.601G/T Gene GENO 168/242/64 88/114/28 9/8/2 0.74 DOM 168/306 88/142 9/10 0.44 0.69 0.271.76 REC 410/64 202/28 17/2 0.83 0.85 0.193.87rs11730582 5 near ALLELIC 613/335 310/152 25/13 0.48 0.701 1.146 0.5712.301T/C Gene GENO 202/209/63 104/102/25 6/13/0 0.035 DOM 202/272 104/127 6/13 0.25 1.77 0.654.83 REC 411/63 206/25 19/0 0.232 0.92 0.880.95rs11439060 5 near ALLELIC 579/369 288/174 26/12 0.15 0.456 0.764 0.3761.553/G Gene GENO 169/241.
0 Exon 7 ALLELIC 948/0 480/0 20/0 NA NA NAG/A GENO 948/0/0 240/0/0 10/0/0 NA DOM 948/0 240/0 10/0 NA NA REC 948/0 240/0 10/0 NA NArs1126772 3 UTR ALLELIC 685/263 340/122 29/9 0.42 0.714 0.865 0.3981.879A/G GENO 251/183/40 125/90/16 10/9/0 0.24 DOM 251/223 125/106 10/9 0.9 1.06 0.422.71 REC 434/40 215/16 19/0 0.619 0.92 0.880.95rs9138 3 UTR ALLELIC 702/246 334/128 29/9 0.47 0.593 0.81 0.3731.758GENO 263/176/35 119/96/16 11/7/1 0.86 DOM 263/211 119/112 11/8 0.59 0.77 0.301.99 REC 439/35 215/16 18/. 1 0.77 0.75 0.095.96p Value for HardyWeinberg equilibrium test among healthy controls. abComparison between GC responsive MG with GC non-responsive MG. cMajor homozygotes/heterozygotes/minor homozygotes. ALLELIC allelic test GENO genotypic test DOM dominant gene action test REC recessive gene action test HWE HardyWeinberg equilibrium NA not applicable GC glucocorticoids MG myasthenia gravis SNP single nucleotide polymorphism. The significant results are highlighted in bold. p<0.05.Table 2  continued4Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230Single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping was performed using a custom-designed SNPscanTM Kit Genesky Biotechnologies Inc. Shanghai China.
The MG patients with the highest levels of OPN had lower percentage of positive acetylcholine receptor AChR antibody 37.5 vs 85.94% p0.006 Figure3c. No difference in age of disease onset gender presence of thymoma involved muscle at disease onset duration before glucocorticoid GC treatment quantitative MG score QMGS at the sample collection and change of QMGS after 3months GC treatment p0.667 0.227 0.641 1.00 1.00 0.373 0.606 respectively Figures3abDh.5Xie et al. OPN and MGFrontiers in Neurology  www.frontiersin.org May 2017  Volume 8  Article 230. Response to GCs. Quantitative MG score ranged from 1 to 35 median QMGS was 6 interquartile ranged from 4 to 11 at study onset and after 3months of treatment a significant reduction in QMGS was observed ranging from 0 to 29 points median QMGS was 1 interquartile ranged from 0 to 3 p<0.0001. The change in QMGS ranged from 2 to 18 median QMGS was 5 interquartile ranged from 3 to 8.Two hundred thirty-one patients 92.4% were considered GC responsive and 19 7.6% were considered GC non-responsive. Clinical characteristics of the patients are summarized in Table1.
Neurology 2000 5511623. doi10.1212/ WNL.55.1.16 19. Howard JF Jr. Barohn RJ Cutter GR Freimer M Juel VC Mozaffar T etal. A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled phase II study of eculizumab in patients with refractory generalized myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2013 4817684. doi10.1002/mus.23839 20. Wolfe GI Barohn RJ Sanders DB McDermott MP Muscle Study G. Comparison of outcome measures from a trial of mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis. Muscle Nerve 2008 385142933. doi10.1002/ mus.21142 21. Bedlack RS Simel DL Bosworth H Samsa G Tucker-Lipscomb B Sanders DB. Quantitative myasthenia gravis score assessment of responsiveness and longitudinal validity. Neurology 2005 6411196870. doi10.1212/01. WNL.0000163988.28892.79 22. Aarli JA end. Myasthenia gravis in the elderly is it different Ann N Y Acad Sci 2008 113223843. doi10.1196/annals.1405.040 23. Barohn RJ McIntire D Herbelin L Wolfe GI Nations S Bryan WW. Reliability testing of the quantitative myasthenia gravis score. Ann N Y Acad Sci 1998 84176972. doi10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb11015.x 24. Hewer R Matthews I Chen S McGrath V Evans M Roberts E etal. A sensitive non-isotopic assay for acetylcholine receptor autoantibodies. Clin Chim Acta 2006 3641215966. doi10.1016/j.cccn.2005.05.0359 Xie et al.
Han B Kang HM Seo MS Zaitlen N Eskin E. Efficient association study design via power-optimized tag SNP selection. Ann Hum Genet 2008 72683447. doi10.1111/j.1469-1809.2008.00469.x 26. Ramchandani D Weber GF. An osteopontin promoter polymorphism is associated with aggressiveness in breast cancer. Oncol Rep 2013 30418608. doi10.3892/or.2013.2632 27. Wang J Nong L Wei Y Qin S Zhou Y Tang Y. Association of osteopontin polymorphisms with nasopharyngeal carcinoma risk. Hum Immunol 2014 7517680. doi10.1016/j.humimm.2013.09.014 28. Gazal S Sacre K Allanore Y Teruel M Goodall AH The CARDIOGENICS Consortium etal. Identification of secreted phosphoprotein 1 gene as a new rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility gene. Ann Rheum Dis 2015 743e19. doi10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204581 29. Wang JL Nong LG Tang YJ Wei YS Yang FL Wang CF. Correlation between OPN gene polymorphisms and the risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Med Oncol 2014 31720. doi10.1007/s12032-014-0020-x 30. Han S Guthridge JM Harley IT Sestak AL Kim-Howard X Kaufman KM etal. Osteopontin and systemic lupus erythematosus association a probable gene-gender interaction. PLoS One 2008 33e0001757. doi10.1371/ journal.pone.0001757 31. Arjomandi M Galanter JM Choudhry S Eng C Hu D Beckman K et al.
No use distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms. Myasthenia Gravis Aggravated by Steroid-Induced Isolated Mediastinal Tuberculous Lymphadenitis. Case ReportzzWe report herein the case of a 56-year-old woman with MG aggravated by the activation of isolated mediastinal tuberculous lymphadenitis MTL during corticosteroid administration. The possibility of MTL had been disregarded in the differential diagnosis of aggravation of MG weakness because MTL without pulmonary manifestations is uncommon even in areas where tuberculosis is endemic. 224 Copyright  2010 Korean Neurological AssociationPrint ISSN 1738-6586 / On-line ISSN 2005-5013 10.3988/jcn.2010.6.4.224 CASE REPORT J Clin Neurol 20106224-226. Myasthenia Gravis Aggravated by Steroid-Induced Isolated Mediastinal Tuberculous Lymphadenitis. end. Tai-Seung Nam MDa Man-Seok Park MDa Kang-Ho Choi MDb Hyun-Jung Jung MDb Geum-Jin Yoon MDb Seong-Min Choi MDb Byeong-Chae Kim MDb Myeong-Kyu Kim MDb Ki-Hyun Cho MDb. aDepartment of Neurology Chonnam National University Hwasun Hospital Hwasun Korea bDepartment of Neurology Chonnam National University Medical School Gwangju KoreaReceived June 23 2009 Revised August 11 2009 Accepted August 11 2009. Correspondence.
Additional lesions may arise on the nasolabial folds glabella periocular skin and eyelids.15 Facial flushing and comedones are notably absent. Classically perioral dermatitis develops secondary to the use of topical corticosteroids or facial cosmetics.1 Young women age 1645 years are most often affected although cases involving children and men have been reported.12 Treatment requires cessation of the offending agent with or without the addition of antibiotics such as tetracycline or erythromycin.15 Without adequate treatment the disease tends to run a persistent and fluctuating course. While perioral dermatitis has been closely associated with topical corticosteroid use the emergence of this condition in patients taking systemic corticosteroids has rarely been reported in the literature.6We report a 37-year-old woman with no significant past medical history who was admitted following 2 days of generalized muscle weakness blurry vision difficulty swallowing and voice changes. She was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis MG following a positive edrophonium test single fibre electromyography that demonstrated severe dysfunction at the neuromuscular junction and positive anti-MuSK antibody. Antibodies against skeletal muscle and acetylcholine receptor binding were negative.
Research Article. end. Shenqi Fuzheng Injection Alleviates the Transient Worsening. end. Caused by Steroids Pulse Therapy in Treating Myasthenia Gravis. Guo-Yan Qi Peng Liu and Bu-Lang GaoDepartment of Oncology Shijiazhuang First Hospital and Hebei Provincial Hospital of Myasthenia Gravis 36 Fanxi Road Shijiazhuang Hebei 050011 ChinaCorrespondence should be addressed to Bu-Lang Gao browngao163.comReceived 22 September 2013 Revised 11 October 2013 Accepted 15 October 2013Academic Editor Karl Wah-Keung TsimCopyright  2013 Guo-Yan Qi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.Purpose. To evaluate the treatment effect and side effect of Shenqi Fuzheng Injection SFI on alleviating transient worsening of myasthenia gravis MG symptoms caused by high-dose steroids pulse therapy. Methods end. Sixty-six consecutive patients with MG were randomly divided into two groups the treatment group treated with SFI andmethylprednisolone pulse therapy MPT and the control group treated with MPT alone.
Treatment. Both the treatment and control groups had methylprednisolone pulse therapy 1520mg/kg which was gradually tapered and oral administration of pyridostigmine bromide an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. If patients were already taking methylprednisolone or similar drugs the drugs would be withheld for 48 hours before this treatment. The treatment group also had 250mL Shenqi Fuzheng Injection intravenously once daily with the treatment course lasting for 20 days for both groups. The clinical absolute and relative scoring system was used to evaluate the treatment effect during the steroids pulse therapy Table 2 12. The clinical absolute score system evaluates the patients in the following eight aspects ptosis upper eyelid fatigue eyeball horizontal movement upper limbs fatigue lower limb fatigue facial muscles chewing and swallowing functions and respiratory muscle function 12. The clinical absolute scores ranges 064 with 0 being the least severe or normal while 64 is being the most severe.The clinical relative score is equal to pretreatment clinical absolute score posttreatment clinical absolute score/pretreatment clinical absolute score.
